.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
WELCOME TO THE AUGUST FOUR
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE
TO THE FLAG OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND TO THE
REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT STANDS
ONE NATION INDIVISIBLE WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL.
&gt;&gt; SOME WHAT OUR CLERK PLEASE
CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL OUR
HAYNER ABSENT OF OUR DAY
PRESENT THAT&apos;S GRISWOLD PRESENT
MURSAU HERE.
THAT&apos;S OUR GRANT HERE.
THAT&apos;S MARY DENHA HERE, TAYLOR
HERE OR ELSEWHERE.
IGHER HERE ELSEWHERE AND ALSO
HERE MY BRICK HERE MY RIMAWI
PRESENT WE HAVE A QUORUM IN
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ARE SECONDED BY COUNSEL
REDISH DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
IN FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
YES MAYOR WE DO.
WE FELT THAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES
THAT WE&apos;RE DEALING WITH IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN APPROPRIATE TO
PROVIDE A BRIEFING FOR YOU AT
THE BEGINNING OF THIS MEETING
REGARDING THE SITUATION WITH
THE RIVER.
WE ARE PREPARED TO PROVIDE A
BRIEFING AND ANSWER SOME
QUESTIONS ALTHOUGH WE WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS
THAT HAVE BEEN POSED TO US THIS
AFTERNOON.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO PROVIDE
ANSWERS IN THE COMING DAYS ON
THE WEBSITE THAT WE SET UP.
BUT WE DO HAVE BRIAN STEIGLITZ
HERE WITH US AND HE IS PREPARED
TO PROVIDE A BRIEFING TO THE
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL MR.
STEIGLITZ.
THANK YOU MR. HONI.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR AND COUNCIL
AGAIN BRIAN STEIGLITZ ON THE
WATER TREATMENT SERVICES UNIT
MANAGER AND SERVING AS THE
INTERIM PUBLIC SERVICES
ADMINISTRATOR.
&gt;&gt; JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE CAN HEAR ME OK?
&gt;&gt; YES, WE CAN.
OK, SO I&apos;D LIKE TO JUST START
WITH THE COMMENT THAT THE
CITY&apos;S DRINKING WATER CURRENTLY
IS SAFE TO DRINK AND THAT WE IN
THE WATER TREATMENT SERVICES
UNIT ARE ALL FOCUSED AS OUR
NUMBER ONE PRIORITY OF ENSURING
THAT THAT CONTINUES TO BE TRUE
AND THAT WE WILL BE PROTECTING
PUBLIC HEALTH AND THAT IS OUR
PRIMARY FOCUS AND AND MISSION.
SO WITH THAT IN MIND, I
UNDERSTAND THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF ANXIETY AROUND THIS
PARTICULAR EVENT AND WE&apos;VE
RECEIVED MANY QUESTIONS FROM
YOU AND MANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMUNITY WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING OUR
BEST TO TRIAGE THOSE AND
PROVIDE ANSWERS TO THOSE
QUESTIONS.
AS YOU CAN IMAGINE.
ALSO A LOT OF QUESTIONS FROM
THE MEDIA AND WE&apos;RE BETWEEN
MYSELF AND THE COMMUNICATION
MANAGER MISS LANDRY.
WE&apos;RE DOING OUR BEST TO TRY TO
STAY ON TOP OF ALL THOSE
QUESTIONS WHILE ALSO TRYING TO
LEAD THE CITY&apos;S RESPONSE.
SO I APPRECIATE YOUR PATIENCE
IN AND GIVING US SOME TIME TO
TO RESPOND TO THOSE QUESTIONS
AND HOPEFULLY I CAN ANSWER SOME
OF THOSE TONIGHT SO I&apos;D LIKE
THE FIRST JUST START WITH WHAT
WE DO KNOW SO WE KNOW THAT
THERE WAS A RELEASE OVER THE
WEEKEND OF TEN THOUSAND GALLONS
OF FIVE PERCENT HEXAVALENT
CHROMIUM INTO THE STORM SEWER
FROM TRIPA INDUSTRIES INTO THIS
INTO THE SANITARY SEWER EXCUSE
ME FROM DRYBAR INDUSTRIES AND
THAT HAS TRANSMITTED TO THE
WICKSON WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT SOME AMOUNT OF THAT THAT
CHEMICAL HAS BEEN RELEASED INTO
NORTEN CREEK WHICH IS WHERE THE
WICKSON WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT DISCHARGES AND THAT&apos;S A
TRIBUTARY THAT HURON WE DON&apos;T
KNOW THAT MAYBE SOME OF THAT
CHEMICAL IS CURRENTLY RETAINED
AT THE WEIXIN WASTEWATER
TREATMENT PLANT.
THEY&apos;RE CONTINUING TO
INVESTIGATE THAT NOW A PRETTY
BROAD MASS SPONTE I&apos;M SORRY WE
HAD COMMENTARY IN THE ROOM.
&gt;&gt; MR STEIGLITZ, PLEASE
CONTINUE.
OK, I&apos;M A PRETTY BROAD RESPONSE
TEAM HAS BEEN FORMED FORMED
THAT INCLUDES MANY PEOPLE FROM
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN EGGLETON
AND THERE ARE MANY FOLKS
ASSEMBLED IN ORDER TO DEVELOP A
COORDINATOR RESPONSE IGOE HAS
FOUND AT THIS POINT COLLECTED
ELEVEN SAMPLES FROM THE HURON
RIVER DOWNSTREAM OF THE OF THE
WEIXIN WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT AND ALL OF THOSE SAMPLES
OF THE WATER HAVE BEEN FOUND TO
BE NON CHECKED FOR CHROMIUM.
THEY ARE CONTINUING TO SAMPLE
TODAY.
THEY HAVE COLLECTED I THINK TWO
DOZEN MORE SAMPLES ALONG
STRETCHES OF HERE ON RIVER AND
SOME OF THOSE MUCH CLOSER TO
ANN ARBOR INCLUDING AT THE
ENTRANCE TO BARTON POND AND WE
HOPE TO HAVE THOSE RESULTS
WITHIN THE NEXT DAY OR SO.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, THE CITY
IS DOING ITS OWN SAMPLING AND
WE ARE ALSO COLLECTING SAMPLES
AT OUR INTAKE HERE ON RIVER AND
BARTON POND.
THIS EVENT IS TRULY A
COORDINATED EVENT.
WE ARE WORKING VERY CLOSELY.
EAGLE THERE&apos;S AN INCIDENT
COMMAND TEAM THAT HAS BEEN
ASSEMBLED.
IT&apos;S MEETING EVERY DAY.
I&apos;M PARTICIPATING IN AT
REPRESENTING THE CITY AS WELL
AS CHIEF KENNEDY AND SIDNEY
PARMENTER, THE EMERGENCY
MANAGER.
THERE&apos;S ALSO A GROUP OF PITHOS
THAT ARE COMMUNICATION MANAGERS
PARTICIPATING IN AS LONG WITH
REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE STATE
AND THE COUNTY.
SO THIS IS TRULY A VERY LARGE
COORDINATED EFFORT ON EPA HAS
ALSO BEEN INVOLVED.
SO UM SO WHAT ELSE ARE WE DOING
AT THE CITY ANN ARBOR?
SO IN ADDITION TO COLLECTING
SAMPLES AND CONTINUING TO
MONITOR AND TRACK THE MOVEMENT
OF THIS INTO OUR OUR INTAKES IN
BARTON POND, WE&apos;VE ALSO ORDERED
SOME MATERIALS THAT WILL BE
ARRIVING OVER THE NEXT DAY OR
TWO THAT WILL ALLOW US TO DO
SOME READABILITY STUDIES OVER
THE NEXT WEEK TO DETERMINE OUR
ABILITY TO REMOVE THIS CHEMICAL
FROM THE SOURCE WATERS AND WE
HAVE MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE
ABOUT THAT WORK OVER THE COMING
THE OTHER THE OTHER ITEM THAT
I&apos;D LIKE TO MENTION IS WELL LET
ME STOP THERE FOR A SECOND AND
I&apos;M GOING TO ADDRESS SOME
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT WE
RECEIVED.
I ALSO PLEASE UNDERSTAND THAT
THIS IS
VERY MUCH A DYNAMIC
SITUATION SO MORE INFORMATION
IS COMING IN EVERY DAY AND WE
ARE ADAPTING AND TRYING TO
PIVOT BASED ON THE INFORMATION
THAT WE RECEIVE.
ONE OF THE IMPORTANT THINGS
THAT WE&apos;RE FOCUSED ON NOW
ASSOCIATED WITH THE WORK THAT
GOOGLE IS DOING IS HOPEFULLY
THE WORK THEY&apos;RE DOING WILL
HELP US IDENTIFY WHERE THE
CONTAMINATION IS ALONG THE
STRETCH OF THE HIRAMAN.
THIS IS GOING TO BE VERY
IMPORTANT FOR US IN TERMS
OF DEVELOPING OUR RESPONSE
PLANS.
SO WE&apos;LL HAVE A MUCH MORE
CLARITY ON WHEN AND IF IT WOULD
REACH BARTON PONDS AND AT THIS
POINT THAT WINDOW IS VERY LARGE
AS YOU ALL KNOW SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN TWO WEEKS AND MAYBE
EVEN A MONTH TO TWO MONTHS AND
THAT HAS TO DO JUST WITH THE
THE COMPLEXITY OF THE WATER
CHANNEL AND THE NUMBER
OF IMPOUNDMENTS ALONG THE RIVER
BETWEEN HERE AND WHERE THE
CONTAMINANT CONTAMINATION
ENTERED THE RIVER.
AND THERE&apos;S SO MANY VARIABLES
IT&apos;S REALLY DIFFICULT TO
PREDICT.
SO WE&apos;RE HOPING THE SAMPLING
EFFORT THE EAGLE IS UNDERTAKING
WILL HELP PROVIDE CLARITY.
SO I WILL CHOOSE SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE
SUBMITTED FOR ME TO ANSWER AND
THESE ARE I SELECTED THE ONES
THAT WE&apos;RE SEEING PROBABLY MOST
COMMONLY FROM FROM CUSTOMERS
AND THE MEDIA.
THE FIRST QUESTION BEING IF
CHEMICALS WERE DETECTED IN THE
WATER SUPPLY, WHAT ACTION WILL
THE CITY TAKE SO AGAIN, WE ARE
FOCUSED ON LOOKING AT HOW THE
TREATMENT PROCESS THAT WE
CURRENTLY HAVE IN ANN ARBOR CAN
BE MODIFIED TO ACCOMMODATE
REMOVING THIS NEW CHEMICAL AND
WE HOPE TO HAVE MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THAT OVER THE
COMING ON.
IS THERE AN ALTERNATIVE SOURCE
OF WATER IDENTIFIED THAT CAN BE
USED INSTEAD OF HERE ON RIVER?
SO WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE FORTUNATE IN ANN
ARBOR TO HAVE TWO SOURCES
OF WATER THE CITY WATER SYSTEM.
WE HAVE THE HURON RIVER AND WE
ALSO HAVE WELLS LOCATED ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF TOWN AND WE BLEND
THESE AT THE WATER TREATMENT
PLANT.
SO THIS ALLOWS US SOME
FLEXIBILITY IN CASE WE HAVE AN
ISSUE WITH ONE OF OUR WATER
SUPPLIES.
SO WE WOULD BE TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF THE WELL SOURCE WHICH WOULD
NOT BE IMPACTED BY THIS
CONTAMINATION AND STILL EVENT
IF AS NEEDED SHOULD RESIDENTS
BE STOCKPILING WATER OR BUYING
BOTTLED WATER?
THE CITY&apos;S WATER CURRENTLY IS
SAFE TO DRINK AND AT THIS POINT
THERE&apos;S NO NEED FOR RESIDENTS
TO BE STOCKPILING WATER OR
BUYING BOTTLED WATER.
THE CUSTOMERS NEED TO HAVE A
HOME TREATMENT DEVICE PER
CUSTOMER DO NOT NEED TO INSTALL
ANY HOME TREATMENT DEVICES
AGAIN, THE WATER AT THIS POINT
IN TIME REMAIN SAFE TO DRINK
AND WE INTEND TO TO KEEP IT IN
THAT SAME FASHION.
I THINK THOSE ARE THE MAJORITY
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I THINK
ARE THE MOST COMMON.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE&apos;S
SEVERAL OTHERS THAT HAVE BEEN
SUBMITTED TO US AND IT IS OUR
INTENT TO RESPOND TO THOSE IN
DUE TIME AS WE HAVE AS THE
COMMUNICATIONS MANAGER.
I HAVE TIME OVER THE COMING
DAYS AND WE&apos;LL PROVIDE THOSE
RESPONSES IN WRITING I AT THIS
POINT I BACK TO YOU, MR. MAYOR
AND ADMINISTRATOR.
TONY, AT YOUR DISCRETION I CAN
STILL BE HERE AVAILABLE IF
THERE&apos;S ANY REMAINING QUESTIONS
THAT FOLKS HAVE THAT I WASN&apos;T
ABLE TO COVER .
I THINK MORE TO FOLLOW UP ON
THE LARGER PICTURE IN TERMS
OF OUR APPROACH TO THE
SITUATION, IT&apos;S CRITICAL FOR
THE COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
TO UNDERSTAND THAT WE WILL BE
ADDRESSING THIS IN AN ONGOING
FASHION.
THAT COMMUNIQU NATION WILL
CONTINUE TO EVOLVE AND WE WILL
BE COMMUNICATING WITH
REGULARITY TO COUNCIL MEMBERS
BUT ALSO PLACING INFORMATION ON
THE WEBSITE THAT WE HAVE
ESTABLISHED.
THERE WILL ALSO BE ADDITIONAL
COMMUNICATION THAT&apos;S
FORTHCOMING FROM THE STATE AND
WE WILL SHARE THOSE MESSAGES AS
WE GET THEM.
SO THIS SITUATION IS FLUID.
IT WILL CONTINUE TO EVOLVE OVER
THE NEXT SEVERAL DAYS AND WE
WILL COMMUNICATE TO YOU AS
APPROPRIATE AND AS WE HAVE MORE
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS THAT HAVE
BEEN POSED, WE ARE ALSO TRYING
TO BALANCE DEALING WITH THE
PLETHORA OF MEDIA QUESTIONS AND
SO THAT TOO IS SOMETHING THAT
HAS TO BE FACTORED IN.
SO WE JUST WANTED TO BRING THIS
TO YOU THIS EVENING AND WE
APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
DO SO.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT GENERAL TIME TO MAKE A
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE I&apos;M
SORRY WE DO HAVE AN
INTRODUCTION.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE IT IS NOW TIME FOR
OUR MONTHLY UPDATE FROM THE
CHAIR OF OUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION, DR. JACKSON.
DR. JACKSON, YOU HAVE TO COME
.
GOOD EVENING.
EVERYONE CAN YOU GUYS HEAR ME
OK?
&gt;&gt; YES, WE CAN.
OK, THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO DON&apos;T KNOW
ME, MY NAME IS LISA JACKSON.
I&apos;M THE CHAIR OF AN INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION.
I&apos;D LIKE TO BEGIN THIS EVENING
BY ACKNOWLEDGING BOTH OUR
INCOMING AND DEPARTING COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
OUR CITY IS BEST SERVED WHEN
OUR LEADERS ARE ENGAGED SO IT
OPENS DOORS WILL ALWAYS BE OPEN
TO YOU WHETHER THAT&apos;S TO
EDUCATE YOU ABOUT THE WORK WE
DO OR TO HEAR THE CONCERNS THAT
YOU OR YOUR CONSTITUENTS HAVE
ABOUT POLICING IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SUCH LEADERSHIP IS CERTAINLY
NOT RESTRICTED TO THOSE HOLDING
OFFICE.
SO PLEASE DON&apos;T BE SHY IN
ENGAGING WITH US.
THANK ALL OF YOU FOR YOUR
SERVICE WHETHER YOU&apos;RE OUTGOING
OR INCOMING.
&gt;&gt; TONIGHT I&apos;D LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT COMMUNICATION AND
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AS MANY
PEOPLE ARE AWARE, A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO WE HAD AN INCIDENT
WHERE THE ANAMBRA POLICE
DEPARTMENT RELEASED A FLIER
CONTAINING SOME TONE DEAF
LANGUAGE FOR A SERIES
OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT EVENTS.
THEY PLAN AND WHILE ONE COULD
COMMEND THE LAPD FOR MAKING AN
EFFORT TO ENGAGE OUR COMMUNITY
IN CONTEXTS OUTSIDE LAW
ENFORCEMENT, THIS INCIDENT
DEMONSTRATED A LONG STANDING
PROBLEM WITH THE DEPARTMENT
THAT IT DID NOT OCCUR TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT THEN INVITING
THE COMMUNITY TO GET BOOKED
WOULD NOT COME ACROSS AS
PLAYFUL OR FUN SPEAKS TO THE
DIRE NEED FOR MORE DIVERSITY
WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT AND
BETTER LINES OF COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN THE DEPARTMENT AND THE
COMMUNITY AT THE END OF THE
DAY, COMMUNICATION REQUIRES
BOTH A SPEAKER AT AN AUDIENCE
AND THE REALITY IS THAT NO
MATTER WHAT APD INTENTIONS,
THEIR MESSAGE WILL NOT GET
ACROSS IF THEY CAN&apos;T USE
LANGUAGE APPROPRIATE TO THEIR
VERY DIVERSE AUDIENCE.
THE PD CAN DO BETTER, SHOULD DO
BETTER AND ALREADY HAS THE
TOOLS TO DO SO.
&gt;&gt; SIMILARLY, THE CITY IS
CURRENTLY WORKING ON TWO
PROJECTS THAT WOULD BENEFIT
FROM BROAD COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT.
THE FIRST OF THOSE WILL BE THE
SEARCH FOR A NEW POLICE CHIEF
NO MATTER WHOM THE CITY
ULTIMATELY CHOOSES TO HIRE.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT AT
THE FOREFRONT OF A HIRING
PROCESS IS A SET OF COMMUNITY
VALUES THAT WE WANT OUR NEXT
POLICE CHIEF TO REFLECT.
LOCAL LEADERS MUST COMMIT TO
STANDING UP FOR THESE VALUES
AND THEN ENSURE THE NEXT CHIEF
MAKES CHANGES THAT REFLECT THEM
AS SUCH, THE INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION WOULD LIKE TO BE A
PART OF THE HIRING DISCUSSIONS
MUCH EARLIER IN THE PROCESS
THAN WE WERE LAST TIME.
BY THE TIME WE WERE BROUGHT IN
DURING THE LAST SEARCH THE
FIELD HAD BEEN NARROWED TO ONLY
THREE CANDIDATES WHICH MEANT
THAT WE DIDN&apos;T HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PARTICIPATE IN
LOOKING FOR CANDIDATES WHOSE
IDEAS REFLECTED THE KIND
OF FEEDBACK WE&apos;VE BEEN
RECEIVING FROM COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
SO WE&apos;D LOVE TO OFFER THAT KIND
OF FEEDBACK AND PARTICIPATE IN
THE PROCESS AS THE VALUES AS
THE SEARCH CRITERIA ARE BEING
DEVELOPED.
WE&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO ADVOCATE FOR
BROAD OUTREACH IN THE UPCOMING
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT DEVELOPING AN
ARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM.
IT&apos;S CRITICAL THAT WE&apos;RE
INCLUDING DEMOGRAPHIC DIVERSE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE AND WORK IN THE
CITY AS WELL AS PEOPLE ACROSS A
WIDE RANGE OF LIVED
EXPERIENCES.
&gt;&gt; THAT MEANS DOING THE
FOOTWORK TO INCLUDE THE UN
HOUSED IN CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
WHAT THEY&apos;D LIKE TO SEE IN AN
ARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM TO TALK
TO A DIVERGENT PEOPLE, TO TALK
TO UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE, TO TALK
TO GROUPS SUCH AS FAITH GROUPS
WHO SERVE AS WARMING CENTERS TO
ORGANIZATIONS SUCH AS THE
DISPUTE RESOLUTION CENTER, TO
INTERFAITH COUNCIL FOR PEACE
ORGANIZATIONS SUCH AS THE
AND JUSTICE.
INTERFAITH COUNCIL FOR PEACE
THIS PROJECT AND THE POTENTIAL
AND JUSTICE.
DEVELOPMENT OF AN UNARMED
THIS PROJECT AND THE POTENTIAL
RESPONSE PROGRAM HAS THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AN UNARMED
POTENTIAL TO MEET THE NEEDS
RESPONSE PROGRAM HAS THE
OF SO MANY DISENFRANCHIZED
POTENTIAL TO MEET THE NEEDS
GROUPS WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
OF SO MANY DISENFRANCHIZED
AND IT WOULD BE A HUGE
GROUPS WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
DISAPPOINTMENT IF THE POTENTIAL
AND IT WOULD BE A HUGE
FOR SUCH A PROGRAM WERE
DISAPPOINTMENT IF THE POTENTIAL
HINDERED DUE TO A LACK
FOR SUCH A PROGRAM WERE
OF IMAGINATION AND CREATIVITY.
HINDERED DUE TO A LACK
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OF IMAGINATION AND CREATIVITY.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUTCOME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
THANK YOU.
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
OUTCOME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST.
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
SPEAK OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST.
TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED
SPEAK OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE
UP IN ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR
TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED
CITY CLERK SPEAKERS HAVE THREE
UP IN ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
CITY CLERK SPEAKERS HAVE THREE
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
THE TIME WE CAN HAVE ONLY ONE
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
PERSON SPEAKING AT A TIME WHEN
THE TIME WE CAN HAVE ONLY ONE
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED.
PERSON SPEAKING AT A TIME WHEN
&gt;&gt; PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED.
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
&gt;&gt; OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
MILJAN SAVABLE MASAFUMI.
&gt;&gt; OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
HELLO I&apos;M OVER.
MILJAN SAVABLE MASAFUMI.
WHEN I FIRST CAME HERE I
HELLO I&apos;M OVER.
THOUGHT I WAS JUST GOING TO BE
WHEN I FIRST CAME HERE I
TELLING YOU THAT THE MAYOR AND
THOUGHT I WAS JUST GOING TO BE
HIS SLATE HAVE PULLED A FAST ON
TELLING YOU THAT THE MAYOR AND
A COUP AND THEY HAVE PUSHED
HIS SLATE HAVE PULLED A FAST ON
EVERY CANDIDATE WHO WOULD EVEN
A COUP AND THEY HAVE PUSHED
REMOTELY DISAGREE WITH THEM
EVERY CANDIDATE WHO WOULD EVEN
FROM THIS BUNCH.
REMOTELY DISAGREE WITH THEM
THEY&apos;VE PUMPED IN HUNDREDS AND
FROM THIS BUNCH.
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS AND NOW
THEY&apos;VE PUMPED IN HUNDREDS AND
MR. MAYOR IS GOING TO BE
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS AND NOW
WITHOUT ANY OBJECTION TO HIS
MR. MAYOR IS GOING TO BE
PROPOSALS AND HE CAN GET IT HIS
WITHOUT ANY OBJECTION TO HIS
WAY EVERY TIME.
PROPOSALS AND HE CAN GET IT HIS
AND I THOUGHT THAT WAS THE BAD
WAY EVERY TIME.
NEWS .
AND I THOUGHT THAT WAS THE BAD
THERE IS A WORSE NEWS I TOLD
NEWS .
THIS BUNCH TWO YEARS AGO THAT
THERE IS A WORSE NEWS I TOLD
YOU SHOULD CLOSE DOWN TYBER.
THIS BUNCH TWO YEARS AGO THAT
IT&apos;S RELEASING US.
YOU SHOULD CLOSE DOWN TYBER.
I TOLD THEM IT&apos;S NO USE THAT
IT&apos;S RELEASING US.
THE PRESS IS GOING TO TRACK
I TOLD THEM IT&apos;S NO USE THAT
SOME OF IT IN FILTERS.
THE PRESS IS GOING TO TRACK
YOU GOT TO SHUT THEM DOWN
AND
THEY DIDN&apos;T.
AND NOW TODAY WE HAVE
HEXAVALENT CHROMIUM LEAKING
INTO OUR WATERS AND THEY WANT
US TO BELIEVE WHAT THE LITTLE
BOY OVER THERE SAYS BUT OH
NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT.
OUR WATER IS SAFE.
DON&apos;T WORRY ABOUT BOILING WATER
OR FILTERING YOUR WATER.
ARE WE SUPPOSED TO BELIEVE THEM
WHEN THEY HAVE LIED TO US SO
MANY TIMES ABOUT QUALITY
OF WATER IN THE PAST?
ARE WE SUPPOSED TO BELIEVE THIS
BUNCH?
IT&apos;S UNBELIEVABLE AND NOW THEY
HAVE EVERY MEMBER IN THIS
COMMITTEE IN THIS GROUP REMOVED
AND ADDED THEIR OWN BODIES ON
HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS WORTH OF MONEY WAS
PUMPED INTO AN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL ELECTIONS AND NOW THERE
IS NO DISAGREEMENT.
THEY&apos;RE ALL GOING TO GO WITH
THE MAYOR ALL THE TIME FOR
ANOTHER TWO FULL YEARS.
THIS IS THIS IS A MOCKERY
OF DEMOCRACY.
THIS IS A MOCKERY OF THE SYSTEM
AND IT IS NOT JUST IN HANOVER.
THIS IS THE FAILURE OF LIBERAL
DEMOCRACY ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND I&apos;M
TALKING TO THOSE EIGHTY TWO
PERCENT WHO DID NOT VOTE ONLY
18 PERCENT OF PEOPLE IN THIS
TOWN VOTED AND I KNOW WHAT THAT
MEANS.
THAT MEANS YOU HAVE NO RESPECT
FOR THE SYSTEM AND YOU DON&apos;T
WANT TO GET INVOLVED.
BUT I&apos;M TELLING YOU, IF YOU
DON&apos;T GET INVOLVED, HOW HE DOES
LIKE THESE WILL COME FOR YOU.
THEY HAVE ALREADY COME FOR YOU.
THEY&apos;RE ALREADY TELLING YOU TO
DRINK THE WATER THAT HAS
CHROMIUM.
THEY&apos;RE ALREADY TELLING YOU
DIOXIN IS SPREADING BUT WE&apos;RE
DOING EVERYTHING WE CAN.
THEY&apos;RE LIARS.
THEY&apos;RE COMING FOR YOUR LIFE IF
YOU DON&apos;T GET INVOLVED IF YOU
DON&apos;T KICK THEIR HORSES OUT
OF HERE, THEY&apos;RE COMING FOR
YOUR.
THEY&apos;VE COME THEY&apos;RE HERE.
STAND UP AND FIGHT FOR IT
BECAUSE IF YOU DON&apos;T THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE YOUR CHILDREN&apos;S
LIVES.
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR
GRANDCHILDREN&apos;S LIVES JUST LIKE
THEY HAVE IN THE PAST 60 YEARS
WHEN THEY ALLOWED THE DIOXIN TO
GO EVERY WHICH WAY.
I DON&apos;T EVEN KNOW IF IT&apos;S
POSSIBLE TO CLEAN IT UP ANYMORE
WAKE UP AND WAKE UP ANN ARBOR.
DON&apos;T LET THESE HYENAS LEAD YOU
TO PLACES YOU DON&apos;T WANT TO GO.
I&apos;M TALKING TO THOSE EIGHTY TWO
PERCENT THAT DIDN&apos;T VOTE VOTE
COME OUT AND VOTE AND VOTE
THESE GUYS OUT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
HERE IS BLAINE
EXCUSE ME.
ARE YOU GOING TO CALL MY NAME
OR WHAT HAVE I CALLED YOUR NAME
ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; OK CAN YOU START THE CLOCK.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS BLAINE COLEMAN AND
YOU KNOW I&apos;M HERE TO REMIND THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO HAVE BEEN
THROWN OUT BY THIS BIG MONEY
COUP COULD HAVE BEEN DIFFERENT
EVEN WITH THAT STEAMROLLER
OF MONEY COMING AT YOU, IT
STILL COULD HAVE BEEN DIFFERENT
.
YOU COULD HAVE STOOD UP FOR
SOMETHING.
YOU WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER
KNOWN, BETTER RESPECTED, BETTER
LIKED.
YOU WOULD HAVE HAD A BETTER
CHANCE.
&gt;&gt; HANNAH&apos;S NOT HERE.
GRISWOLD&apos;S HERE.
ALI&apos;S HERE
.
WHO ELSE GOT THROWN OUT?
I FORGET THAT ELIZABETH IS HERE
.
&gt;&gt; YOU COULD HAVE MADE A NAME
FOR YOURSELF STANDING UP FOR
THE SIMPLE SEVEN WORD
RESOLUTION.
WE ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
&gt;&gt; I HOPE YOU HAVEN&apos;T FORGOTTEN
THAT ISRAEL MASSACRES THOUSANDS
OF PALESTINIANS WITH YOUR TAX
MONEY PERIODICALLY.
&gt;&gt; ISRAEL ALSO MASSACRES
HUNDREDS OF PALESTINIANS
PERIODICALLY WITH YOUR TAX
MONEY.
&gt;&gt; ISRAEL IS A STATE THAT WAS
BUILT ON THE MASSACRE
OF PALESTINIANS AND THE ROBBERY
OF PALESTINIAN LAND STILL IS
ALWAYS HAS BEEN YOU DON&apos;T HAVE
TO HAPPILY FUND IT.
YOU CAN AT LEAST SAY NO AND
SAVE AN AWFUL LOT
OF PALESTINIAN LIVES, ARAB
LIVES AND MUSLIM LIVES.
BUT YOU WANT THIS CITY COUNCIL
WITH YOUR HELP WITH YOUR HELP
THREW ALL ITS WEIGHT AGAINST
EVERY PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
RESOLUTION.
&gt;&gt; SOME OF YOU MADE LITTLE
SQUEAKS LIKE YOU WERE GOING TO
PUSH FOR THIS RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
GRISWOLD MADE SOME SQUEAKS LIKE
SHE WAS GOING TO DO IT ACTUALLY
SHE SAID SHE WOULD AND SHE
VANISHED.
NELSON NEVER SAID SHE WOULD.
SHE WASN&apos;T HOSTILE BUT SHE
NEVER SAID SHE WOULD NEVER SAID
HE WOULD.
&gt;&gt; HAYNER SAID HE WOULD.
HAYNER SAID HE WOULDN&apos;T BACK
DOWN.
HE DID.
HE VANISHED.
GRISWOLD VANISHED.
IF YOU HAD STOOD UP FOR HUMAN
RIGHTS EVEN EVEN NOW IF YOU
STOOD UP FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND
YOU DID YOUR BEST TO PUSH THIS
RESOLUTION, YOU WOULD MAKE A
NAME FOR YOURSELF.
&gt;&gt; YOU WOULD BE BETTER KNOWN,
BETTER RESPECTED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HEAVEN PART
OF ME HEAVEN.
&gt;&gt; SO LEOTIS HELLO EVERYONE.
IN CONTINUATION MY EARLIER
PRESENTATION PROPOSING THAT
COUNCIL CREATED AN
OMBUDSPERSONS OFFICE AS A
CITIZEN&apos;S ADVOCATE WHERE
RESIDENTS CAN AFFORD TO BE
FILED COMPLAINTS AGAINST CITY
MALADMINISTRATION I CONTINUE
WITH THE EXAMPLE OF MY MOTHER
LOLAS MISTREATMENT BY CERTAIN
CITY OFFICIALS EXHIBIT SIX FROM
THE DOCUMENTS THAT I PREVIOUSLY
PASSED TO COUNCIL MEMBERS IS AN
EMAIL FROM A CITY ATTORNEY
STATING THAT THEY INSTRUCTED
THE SENIOR BUILDING OFFICIAL
NOT TO COMMUNICATE WITH LOLAS
GRANDSON IGNORING NINETY ONE
YEAR OLD LOLAS AFFIDAVIT
AUTHORIZING HER GRANDSON
VIOLATING LOLAS RIGHT TO HAVE
AN ADVOCATE AND OBSTRUCTING
LAWLIS EFFORT TO RENEW HER
RENTAL CERTIFICATE
OF COMPLIANCE.
EXHIBIT SEVEN IS A COURT
TRANSCRIPT WHERE THE SAME CITY
ATTORNEY REVERSES THE FALSE
EIGHT MONTH OLD CLAIM THAT
LOLA&apos;S GRANDSON WAS NOT
AUTHORIZED AND SUDDENLY ARGUES
IN OPEN COURT THAT LOLA&apos;S
GRANDSON WAS IN FACT AUTHORIZED
TO ACT TO INTERACT WITH THE
CITY.
IN SHORT, LOLA&apos;S GRANDSON WAS
EITHER UNAUTHORIZED OR
AUTHORIZED.
IS IT SUITED THE CONVENIENCE
OF CITY OFFICIALS?
EXHIBIT NINE IS AN IMPROPER
JULY TWENTY TWENTY ONE TICKET
ISSUED IN VIOLATION OF SEVERAL
STATE STATUTES.
IT WAS ISSUED AT THE DIRECTION
OF THE SENIOR BUILDING OFFICIAL
AND FALSELY CITED WORK WITHOUT
A PERMIT FOR WORK THAT SHOULD
NOT HAVE BEEN TICKETED FOR
REASONS INCLUDING THAT BUILDING
PERMITS HAD BEEN OBTAINED IN
2017 AND BECAUSE THE CITED WORK
WAS BEYOND THE STATUTE
OF LIMITATIONS FOR TICKETING,
THIS TICKET WAS DISMISSED BY
THE CITY AFTER LOLAS ATTORNEY
SAID THAT HE WANTED TO SUBPOENA
CITY OFFICIALS TO TESTIFY IN
COURT.
NONETHELESS, THE DEFEATED
TICKET KOSLO LOLA ROUGHLY 10000
DOLLARS IN LEGAL FEES AND COSTS
EXHIBIT TEN ARE FOR STATES
STATUTES THE CITY OFFICIALS
VIOLATED IN THEIR AGGRESSIVE
PURSUIT OF LOLA STATED IN MY
PREVIOUS PRESENTATION THE GAME
CITY OFFICIALS ARE PLAYING HAVE
PUSHED AS INCOME UNDER THE
POVERTY LINE AND HAVE CAUSED
CONTINUOUS LOSSES WHICH WILL
SOON SURPASS 50000 DOLLARS.
MY NEXT PRESENTATION WILL
PROVIDE THE MOST TROUBLING
EVIDENCE OF ALL INDICATION
OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATION&apos;S
IMPROPER INFLUENCE OVER OUR
LOCAL COURTS AND ITS FAILED
ATTEMPT TO PROSECUTE LOLA.
OUR FAMILY NO LONGER FEEL SAFE
IN WASHTENAW COUNTY IN THE CITY
OF VANCOUVER DUE TO A
DEMONSTRATED WILLINGNESS TO
IGNORE COURT RULES, RULES
OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT AND
CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED DUE
PROCESS RIGHTS ON THE PART
OF VARIOUS OFFICIALS
INFORMATION.
AN OMBUDSPERSON IS A CITIZEN&apos;S
ADVOCATE.
THE REGULATES THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION BY PROVIDING
FULL TIME PROFESSIONAL TO
RECEIVE RESIDENT COMPLAINTS AND
ACT ON VALID COMPLAINTS,
THEREBY ASSISTING OUR PART TIME
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO HAVE NO
STAFF TO PROVIDE A POTENT
PROTECTIVE SERVICE TO OUR LOCAL
COMMUNITY.
TO QUOTE MICHIGAN ATTORNEY
GENERAL DENHA NESTLES, AN
INDEPENDENT OMBUDSMAN AND HELPS
INSTILL TRUST AND FAITH IN
GOVERNMENT ON THE PART OF THE
PUBLIC.
FIVE COUNCIL MEMBERS SUPPORT ON
BOARD OMBUDSPERSONS CREATION.
I SPEAK WITH ANOTHER TOMORROW.
I HOPE THIS PROPOSAL WILL
SHORTLY GAIN THE SUPPORT OF ALL
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE THEIR COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
NELSON.
HI.
I WANT TO THANK THE WARD FOR
RESIDENTS WHO ATTENDED THE
PUBLIC HEARING LAST NIGHT AT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT
CONVERSION OF THE RETAIL SPACE
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE
GEORGE I.
I&apos;LL BE POSTING INFORMATION ON
MY WEB SITE ABOUT HOW THAT
MEETING WHAT I WAS ABLE TO
WATCH MOST BUT NOT ALL OF THAT
PART OF THE MEETING.
I&apos;D ALSO LIKE FOLKS TO KNOW
THAT THERE IS GOING TO BE A
PUBLIC HEARING.
HOLD ON A SECOND.
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR ONE REZONING
OF WEST STADIUM ON AUGUST 16TH
AT 7:00 PM RESIDENTS WITHIN
THREE HUNDRED FEET OF THE
PROPOSED AREA RECEIVED A
POSTCARD ABOUT THAT SPOT ON.
I&apos;VE POSTED INFORMATION ON MY
WEB SITE FOR ANY RESIDENTS WHO
MIGHT WANT TO PARTICIPATE IN
THAT PUBLIC HEARING AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; THANKS, COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD
.
GOOD EVENING.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
PARTICIPATED IN THE PRIMARY
ELECTION ON TUESDAY AND ALSO I
WANT TO THANK I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK
STAFF EVEN THOUGH THE FOCUS HAS
BEEN ON THE ELECTION AND IT IS
SUMMER STAFF HAVE MADE
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS IN THREE
AREAS.
THE FIRST ONE IS CHAPTER FORTY
WHICH IS BEING REVIEWED BY THE
LEGAL DEPARTMENT CHAPTER FORTY
IS REGARDING VEGETATION AND THE
REVISIONS ALSO INCLUDED THE
ABILITY TO REPLACE A LAWN WITH
A MORE POLLINATOR FRIENDLY
NATURAL SURFACE COVERING NUMBER
TWO THE RESOLUTION FOR U OF M
WORKFORCE HOUSING AND THAT&apos;S
BASED ON THE THREE PRINCIPLES
OF EQUITY SUSTAINABILITY AND
VISION ZERO WHICH REFERS TO
TRANSPORTATION.
ONE OF THE OPPORTUNITIES WOULD
BE LIVING LEARNING LABORATORIES
FOR THE STUDENTS AND I AM VERY
THANKFUL THAT A DIALOG HAS
BEGUN BETWEEN THE CITY AND THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
AND LASTLY A MEETING WILL
HAPPEN TOMORROW REGARDING THE
RESOLUTION TO OPTIMIZE OUR
INITIATIVES AGAIN
TRANSPORTATION, SUSTAINABILITY
AND EQUITY.
WE KNOW THAT IN SOME CASES
FRICTION IS CAUSED IN THE
COMMUNITY IN THE COMMUNITY WHEN
THERE IS CONFLICTING
INFORMATION IN THOSE
INITIATIVES AND WE HOPE TO
IDENTIFY AND REVISE THEM LAST
I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK
REPRESENTATIVE RAHBI TODAY IN
THE NEWS HE CALLED FOR SHUTTING
DOWN THE TRIBORO FACILITY AND I
HOPE THAT HAPPENS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, MA&apos;AM.
PLEASE PLEASE COUNCILMAN JOHN.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO BRING ATTENTION
TO UNITED WE WASHINESS A RECENT
RELEASE OF THE ALICE REPORT
ALICE ASSET LIMITED INCOME
CONSTRAINED EMPLOYMENT REPORT
IN REPRESENTS OUR COMMUNITIES
AND LEADERS ARE STILL TRYING TO
WORK AND MAKE ENDS MEET.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S AT YOU WASHTENAW
ORGEL US IT INDICATES THIRTY
ONE PERCENT OF OUR HOUSEHOLDS
STRUGGLE TO AFFORD THE BASIC
NECESSITIES OF HOUSING,
CHILDCARE, FOOD, HEALTH CARE
AND TRANSPORTATION.
THIS IS A REPORT THAT&apos;S
PUBLISHED EVERY YEAR FOR THE
COUNTY AND THIS IS I ENCOURAGE
FOLKS TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
&gt;&gt; IT GIVES US A GOOD SENSE
OF WHY WE SUPPORT UTILITIES
NEEDS SO THAT WE CAN MAKE SURE
OUR COMMITTEE MEMBERS ARE TAKEN
CARE OF INCLUDES CHILDREN IN
FINANCIAL HARDSHIP.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S A DASHBOARD FOR THAT
AS WELL AS WITH MEASURING WHAT
WORK WHAT THE NEEDS ARE FOR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES,
THINKS COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO ALSO BRIEFLY
ECHO THANKS TO OUR CLERK AND
HER EXCELLENT STAFF FOR
ADMINISTERING ANOTHER ELECTION
PARTICULARLY WITH NEW PRECINCT
NUMBERS, NEW BOUNDARIES AND
OBVIOUSLY THE CONTINUED INFLUX
OF ABSENTEE BALLOTS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
AND SO I JUST REALLY APPRECIATE
OUR HARD WORK AND INTO THE INTO
THE EARLY MORNING OF WEDNESDAY
TO MAKE SURE THAT RESULTS WERE
PUT OUT FOR THE COMMUNITY.
I ALSO JUST WANTED TO LET FOLKS
KNOW SINCE IT IS STILL A NEW
COMMISSION THAT RENTERS
COMMISSION HAS SCHEDULED
ANOTHER SPECIAL SESSION FOR
AUGUST 10TH AT SIX THIRTY PM
AND HAVE ESTABLISHED THEIR NEW
STANDING TIME FOR THE THIRD
THURSDAY OF THE MONTH AT SEVEN
THIRTY.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
KELTER BRIGS.
I WANT TO THANK STAFF FOR THE
PRESENTATION TODAY.
I&apos;M STILL IN THE GREEN RIVER.
I APPRECIATE HEARING THAT
UPDATE AND LOOKING FORWARD TO I
APPRECIATE THE WEBSITE UP AND
LOOK FORWARD TO GETTING MORE
MORE WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ON
THE SUBJECT.
I KNOW RESIDENTS ARE VERY
INTERESTED IN THE SUBJECT AS
ARE ALL OF US.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MA&apos;AM.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STOP INTERRUPTING
COUNCIL MEMBERS AS THEY&apos;RE
SPEAKING.
&gt;&gt; ADDITIONALLY, I JUST WANTED
TO HIGHLIGHT THE COMMUNITY
CONVERSATIONS THAT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WILL BE HAVING
THIS MONTH AROUND DOWNTOWN.
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE ONE ON
MONDAY, AUGUST 8TH AT THREE
THIRTY PM AND THEN AGAIN ON
TUESDAY, AUGUST 9TH AT SIX P.M.
THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE AN ONLINE
ZOOME MEETING.
THERE&apos;S INFORMATION ABOUT THAT
ON THE CITY&apos;S WEBSITE.
IT&apos;S A GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO TO
SHARE INFORMATION WITH OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR ABOUT YOUR VISION
FOR THE DOWNTOWN PROJECT
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I&apos;D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO CITY COUNCIL ON JULY TWENTY
TWENTY TWO TO THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS CRISTIANA GUZIK.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
WIKINEWS DISCUSSION IN FAVOR
POSED IT&apos;S APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION OF THE ANN ARBOR
AREA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
BOARD DIRECTORS SEEMY BARR
FURTHER TO THE PUBLIC MARKET
ADVISORY COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO RECOMMEND FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION AT OUR NEXT
MEETING ERIC THERRELL.
I TOO WOULD LIKE TO EXTEND MY
THANKS TO TO THE CLERK&apos;S OFFICE
AND HER STAFF AS WELL AS TO THE
HUNDREDS OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WHO PARTICIPATE IN OUR
ELECTIONS ELECTIONS WHENEVER
THEY OCCUR, WHETHER THEY&apos;RE
SPECIAL PRIMARY OR GENERAL ARE
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO GO TO THE
POLLS AND MAKE THEIR VOICES
HEARD.
BUT IT WOULD NOT BE
ACCOMPLISHED WITHOUT THE
SUPPORT OF STAFF AND WITHOUT
THE SUPPORT OF UNTOLD NUMBERS
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS WILLING TO
DO THEIR PART.
YOU KNOW I THE MEMBERS, THE
CITY AND INDEED ALL COMMUNITY
MEMBERS ARE GRATEFUL FOR THEIR
PARTICIPATION, THEIR DILIGENCE
AND THEIR CIVIC THE EXERCISE
OF THEIR THEIR CIVIC DUTIES WE
NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE CONSENT
AGENDA MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN OUR SECOND A
COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA PALMY
DISCUSSION THE CONSENT AGENDA
WHILE IF FAVOR POSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO SEE
A TEN C11 WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
&gt;&gt; PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
PUBLIC HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS
NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
BUT YOUR SPEECH AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME ONLINE
OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
HERE IN THE ROOM THE CLERK WILL
DO SO IN EACH CASE WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC CARRY NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND TABLES 5.1
FIVE DASH ONE PRIMARY USE TABLE
AND FIVE THAT ONE SEVEN DASH
TWO TWO FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
ZONING DISTRICT MENTIONS
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT TODE CODE OF TITLE
FIVE THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE IN THE ROOM
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS BUDERIM IS THERE ANY ONE I
KNOW LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE
THREE FOUR DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
CRESTAR SIX ON ME FROM
BEGINNING THIS IS DOWN STALBERG
CALLING FROM NORTHTOWN HERE IN
ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO THANK YOU ALL THIS
IF IT PASSES TONIGHT WILL
INCREASE THE WEALTH OF MYSELF
AND MY SMALL INVESTMENT.
WE HAPPEN TO BE FOND
OF DUPLEXES AND HAVE A NUMBER
OF DUPLEX LOFTS.
&gt;&gt; OUR UNIT YIELD THAT WE&apos;RE
ABLE TO ACHIEVE WILL INCREASE
WITH THE PASSING OF THIS YEAR.
I SAY THIS OTHER THINGS
RECENTLY AND LOOKING AT OTHER
THINGS COMING FORWARD THAT
INCREASE THE WEALTH OF OTHER
PEOPLE UNCONDITIONALLY AND
THERE&apos;S BEEN SOME CRITICISM
OF OF THAT SOME QUESTIONING
WHETHER WE SHOULD KNOW BECAUSE
WEALTH IS BEING INCREASED WHEN
THE CITY PASSES CERTAIN NEW
RULES, NEW LAWS.
&gt;&gt; BUT I&apos;M JUST GOING TO THANK
YOU AND LET EVERYBODY KNOW THAT
THIS ONE WILL INCREASE OUR
WEALTH AND IT&apos;S UNCONDITIONAL.
WE CAN HAVE TO BUILD ANYTHING.
WE CAN SELL IT.
WE CAN WE COULD TAKE A LOAN ON
THE PROPERTY OF THE INCREASED
VALUE OF OUR PROPERTY AND SPEND
THAT MONEY ON SOMETHING ELSE.
WE CAN BUILD SOMETHING FOR OUR
NOT OUR CHOICE.
WE CAN BUILD SOMETHING
SUSTAINABLE OR NOT OUR CHOICE.
&gt;&gt; SO IT REALLY IS A FREEBIE
FOR US.
&gt;&gt; SO I WANT TO THANK YOU ALL
FOR THAT ALSO BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
BEEN A LOT OF THE MAYOR&apos;S
SUPPORTERS SPREADING OUT LIES
ABOUT ME IN ORDER TO TRY TO
DISCREDIT THE MESSAGES THAT I
HAVE BECAUSE I HAVE DEVELOPED
EXPERIENCE AND IN THE PAST
THEY&apos;VE MADE SOME FALSE
ACCUSATIONS ABOUT ME DOING
THINGS MOTIVATED BY MY OWN
PERSONAL GAIN IN TERMS OF WELL
BEEN INVOLVED AND RIGHT NOW SO
IT MAKES SENSE FOR ME TO LET
YOU KNOW THIS ONE ALTHOUGH I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT I&apos;VE BEEN
ACCUSED OF ANYTHING HERE I JUST
WANT TO LET YOU KNOW THAT YOU
WILL BE INCREASING MY PERSONAL
WEALTH AND OUT OF MY SMALL
INVESTMENT GROUP IF YOU PASS
THIS TONIGHT ALONG WITH THE
DETAILS, I THINK YOU SHOULD
DISCUSS THE INTERACTION THEY&apos;RE
PLANNING INITIATIVES UPCOMING.
I&apos;M LOOKING AT ELIMINATING
PARKING MINIMUMS SO YOU SHOULD
TALK ABOUT HOW THAT INTERACTS
WITH THIS.
THE SITE SITE PLAN THRESHOLD&apos;S
WERE RECENTLY CHANGED SO WE
SHOULD TALK ABOUT THAT
INTERACTS WITH THIS YOU KNOW,
IF SOMEBODY BRINGS A NEW DUPLEX
BRAND UNDER THIS CONVERTING
A
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE DUPLEX
OR NEW CONSTRUCTION DUPLEX,
WHERE DOES IT GO?
WHAT BODY DOES IT STOP AT THE
PLANNING MANAGER I GO TO PLAN
INSPECTION ETC. THAT WAS ALL
COVERED IN THE SITE SPECIAL BUT
I THINK A PUBLIC DISCUSSION
EXACTLY WHAT THOSE INTERACTIONS
WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR THE PUBLIC
IN GENERAL.
I WANT TO TAKE THIS LAST MOMENT
TO SUPPORT THE GENTLEMAN WHO
SPOKE IN FAVOR OF THE
OMBUDSMAN.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S MUCH NEEDED AT THE
CITY.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF GOOD AND A LOT
OF THE STAFF.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF HOPE THAT
PEOPLE CAN FALL IN INDIVIDUAL
AND THEY ENDED UP GOING TO THE
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS A LAST
RESORT IN TERMS OF GETTING HELP
AN BUDGETING WITH THE BIG
DIFFERENCE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; HI.
MY NAME MY NAME IS ADAM
DISCOVERED I&apos;M IN THE FOURTH
QUARTER I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
GIVE MY SUPPORT TO THIS.
I THINK IT&apos;S A GREAT IDEA TO TO
MAKE IT POSSIBLE SO THAT THESE
LABS THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE DUPLEXES ON THEM
CAN HAVE DUPLEXES.
AND I JUST HAVE ONE ONE
QUESTION AND I&apos;M HOPING CAN BE
ANSWERED IN THE DISCUSSIONS ON
THIS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THIS
DOES IS INCREASE THE RATE
OF EXISTING ART TO A PROPERTY
COMPLIANCE WITH WHAT SIZE AND
WHAT STANDARD FROM TWENTY NINE
PERCENT TO SEVENTY FOUR
PERCENT.
I WAS JUST WONDERING WHAT WOULD
BE REQUIRED TO GET US TO ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MICHEL HUGHES DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; HI.
SO I&apos;M I&apos;M EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PROPOSAL.
&gt;&gt; I LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD ON
MY STREET.
THIS IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS HAS BEEN A COUPLE
OF BIGFOOTING PROJECTS WHERE
PEOPLE BOUGHT OR PEOPLE BOUGHT
OLD HOUSES, TORE THEM DOWN AND
BUILT MUCH MORE EXPENSIVE
HOUSES TO REPLACE THEM AND
THEY&apos;RE ALL SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES.
SO THESE THE THE AFFORDABILITY
OF MY NEIGHBORHOOD WAS
DRASTICALLY DECREASED WHILE THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO CAN
BENEFIT FROM LIVING IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS NOT INCREASED
A LOT OF PEOPLE YOU KNOW, THIS
IS A CITY THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
LOVE AND A LOT OF PEOPLE SHOULD
IN MY OPINION BE ABLE TO SHARE
IN THE THINGS THAT I LOVE ABOUT
THIS CITY.
AND SO I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE MORE
PEOPLE IN OUR CITY AND THIS IS
A SMALL STEP TOWARDS DOING IT.
I AM A LITTLE CONCERNED THAT,
YOU KNOW, A DUPLEX ISN&apos;T GOING
TO BE A SUFFICIENTLY ATTRACTIVE
PROJECT FOR SOMEBODY TO BUILD.
I HOPE WE&apos;LL GET SOME I WOULD I
WOULD PREFER TO SEE COMPLEXES
OR EVEN LARGER TO BE YOU KNOW,
ENCOURAGED AROUND HERE THAT THE
HOUSE NEXT TO ME SOLD FOR EIGHT
HUNDRED EIGHTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
LAST TIME IT WAS WHEN IT WAS
BIGFOOTED AND I CAN JUST
IMAGINE THAT, YOU KNOW, IF IT
IF THAT HAD BEEN FOUR HOUSES,
YOU KNOW, EACH SELLING AT LIKE
EVEN THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS THAT WOULD BE YOU KNOW,
A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT WOULD BE A
LOT MORE PEOPLE COULD BUY IT
MUCH MORE AFFORDABLY.
BUT YOU KNOW EVEN IF IT HAD
BEEN A DUPLEX EACH OF THEM
SELLING FOR FOUR HUNDRED AND
FORTY THOUSAND OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT THEN EVEN THAT WOULD
BE BETTER THAN AN EIGHT HUNDRED
EIGHTY THOUSAND DOLLAR HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M HAPPY TO SEE MORE
PEOPLE SHARING MY COMMUNITY AND
I HOPE THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT&apos;LL GET US TOWARDS THAT
GOAL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE I&apos;D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE MINUTES
OF THE REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF JULY 18 20 22 MAY
HAVE EMOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE HAS MOVED BY COUNCILOR
DISH SECOND BY KELTS MCGRANN
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ON
FAVORITE POSED THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
TABLES 5.1 FIVE DASH ONE
PRIMARY USE TABLE AND FIVE THAT
ONE SEVEN DASH TWO TWO FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY EVENT ARBER
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER OUR
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF BE ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO THERE ARE TWO AMENDMENTS
HERE TO THE CITY&apos;S DEVELOPMENT
CODE .
ONE WOULD ALLOW RELIGIOUS
ASSEMBLY USE AS A PRIMARY USE
IN THE M1 OR LIMITED INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; THAT AMENDMENT WAS REQUESTED
BY OXFORD PROPERTIES WHO HAS AN
EXISTING RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION
TENANT OPERATING IN THE M1
DISTRICT AS CURRENTLY A NON
CONFORMING USE.
THE SECOND AMENDMENT IS THE ONE
THAT HAS COME UP A FEW TIMES IN
THE LAST FEW MINUTES AND THAT
AMENDS MAKES AMENDMENTS TO THE
MINIMUM LOT SIZE IN R TO A
ZONING DISTRICT TO ENABLE THAT
ZONING DESIGNATION TO
ACCOMPLISH WHAT IT WAS SUPPOSED
TO WHEN IT WAS CREATED IN 1963
AND THAT WAS TO MAKE ROOM FOR
MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR BY MAKING IT POSSIBLE TO
DEVELOP DUPLEXES ALONGSIDE
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES ON
SIMILARLY SIZED LOTS.
TWENTY YEARS AFTER ARE TO A
DISTRICT WAS CREATED IN 1984
CITY COUNCIL AMENDED IN OTHER
WORDS NOT IT WAS CREATED IN 63
BUT THIS HAPPENS IN 84 CITY
COUNCIL AMENDED THE RTA
DISTRICT TO INCREASE THE WIDTH
AND SIZE OF THE LOT THAT YOU
WOULD NEED IN ORDER TO DEVELOP
A DUPLEX BY ROUGHLY THIRTY
PERCENT.
THAT INCREASE WENT AGAINST THE
INTENT OF THE R TO A ZONE BY
MAKING IT ILLEGAL TO BUILD
DUPLEXES ON THE VAST MAJORITY
OF THE LOTS THAT HAD BEEN
REZONED FOR THAT VERY PURPOSE.
THIS AMENDMENT IS A COURSE
CORRECTION THAT MAKES IT LEGAL
TO DEVELOP DUPLEXES AGAIN ON
MOST OF THE FOURTEEN HUNDRED
LOTS CURRENTLY ZONED ARE TO A
IF PLANNING STAFF IS HERE I
WOULD LIKE TO ASK THEM TO
ANSWER WHY WE DIDN&apos;T GO ALL THE
WAY TO ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
WHICH I UNDERSTOOD IS A PROBLEM
OF DIMINISHING RETURNS BUT I&apos;M
SURE THEY HAVE A MORE ELOQUENT
EXPLANATION AND PERHAPS ALSO TO
ADDRESS THE INTERACTIONS WITH
CHANGES TO THE STATE REVIEW
THRESHOLDS AND I&apos;M HAPPY TO
GIVE MY SECOND ROUND SPEAKING
TO THEM GIVING ME MAYOR AND
COUNCIL.
WE DID NOT APPROACH THE STAFF
IN THE PLANNING QUESTION DIDN&apos;T
APPROACH US.
I WAS TRYING TO MAKE EVERY A
LOT IN THE R TO A CONFORMING
RATHER THAN TRYING TO FIND
APPROPRIATE SIZE TO AMEND THESE
DIMENSIONS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THE ANSWER BECAUSE
OUR DATA AND OUR TWO A LOT IS
BLENDED WITH KONDOR DATA SO I
CAN&apos;T BE DEFINITIVE BUT MY BEST
ESTIMATE IS IF THE GOAL WAS
EVERY HOUR TO A LOT TO BE
CONFORMING I THINK THAT THE
LOTS I WOULD PROBABLY HAVE TO
BE REDUCED TO AROUND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF EIGHTEEN
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET THAT&apos;S JUST
FROM A QUICK ANALYSIS OF DATA
IN PLACE AND AS IT RELATES TO
THE SIPKIN OF THE QUESTION,
THERE WOULD BE NO CHANGE IN
THIS REGARD.
DUPLEXES HAVE ALWAYS BEEN
PERMISSIBLE JUST THROUGH A A
PERMIT PROCESS SO THEY&apos;RE THERE
BUT THAT WOULD HAVE REMAIN
STABLE SINCE BEFORE AMENDMENTS
TO OUR SITE INTERVIEW
THRESHOLDS AND AFTER.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION,
COUNCILOR GRISWOLD, GIVEN THAT
I FREQUENTLY HEAR THAT WE WANT
TO ELIMINATE SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING AND I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
WEIGH IN ON THAT RIGHT NOW I
HAVE TO AGREE WITH MICHELLE
HUGHES.
&gt;&gt; WHY ARE WE STOPPING AT ONLY
TWO UNITS ESPECIALLY IN THE
NEAR DOWNTOWN AREA AND WHY
AREN&apos;T WE JUST DOING A
COMPREHENSIVE COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS WHERE WE COULD
IDENTIFY LOTS IN CERTAIN AREAS
THAT COULD HAVE FOUR OR SIX OR
EIGHT UNITS INSTEAD OF TWO?
IT JUST SEEMS LIKE WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE
DOING THIS PIECEMEAL AND IT&apos;S
BECOMING VERY CONVOLUTED AND IF
WE HAVE A CRISIS AND WE NEED
HOUSING, WE NEED TO GET BUILT
AND AND THIS DOESN&apos;T SEEM TO BE
DOING THANK YOU.
I GUESS MY QUESTION THAT GOT
LOST THERE IS IS WHY ONLY TWO
UNITS I KNOW IT ZONE FOUR BUT
WHY CAN&apos;T WE CHANGE THAT
CATEGORY TO FOUR OR SIX OR
EIGHT CERTAINLY STEP UP.
WHERE SHOULD IT FOLLOW UP ON
ANY SUCH DIRECTION TO BE SO BY
COUNCIL?
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS AN I THINK IN THE
PAST THERE HAVE BEEN BROADER
CONVERSATIONS TO LOOK AT OUR
FORESE DISTRICT IN OUR TWO
DISTRICTS OUR DOWNTOWN CORE IS
OUR FORESE AND IT&apos;S NOT TO SAY
THAT THERE AREN&apos;T OPPORTUNITIES
I THINK TO IMPROVE THAT ZONING
DISTRICT.
THIS WAS INTENDED TO BE A SORT
OF CONCISE AND THE PART
OF ZONING AMENDMENTS TO REALLY
JUST FOCUS ON THE DUPLEX ZONING
DISTRICT WHERE MANY LOTS ARE
EXISTING THAT FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M
SORRY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
UM, I&apos;VE HAD SOME FIRST WARD
RESIDENTS REACH OUT TO ME TODAY
TO EXPRESS CONCERNS ON THIS.
SO THESE VIEWS ARE FAR FROM THE
FIRST WARD
BECAUSE COUNCIL
MEMBER HAYNER IS NOT HERE TO TO
ADDRESS THEM JUST LIKE IN THE
CASE OF SOME ADA USE
REGULATIONS THAT WE CHANGED IN
OTHER ORDINANCE CHANGES IS THAT
THERE WILL BE THE CONCERN IS
THAT THERE IS GOING TO BE
INCREASED PRESSURE AND WHAT
CURRENTLY IS AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND LOTS THERE ARE AFFORDABLE G
JUST BECAUSE OF THE INCREASED
POTENTIAL THAT THESE LOTS HAVE
WITH THE GREATER DENSITY THAT
IT&apos;S ALLOWED.
UM, NOW A HAVE A SEPARATE
CONCERN OF MINE AND THAT IS
STORMWATER RUNOFF AND
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND
DRAINAGE AND THE INCREASE
OF IMPERVIOUS IMPERVIOUS
SURFACES WHILE WE CONTINUE TO
DEVELOP DEVELOP A PLAN MANY
TIMES WE&apos;RE NOT TAKING INTO
CONSIDERATION THE STORMWATER
AND IN THE RUNOFF IT COMES WITH
MORE IMPERMEABLE SURFACES AND
THIS IS HAPPENING QUITE OFTEN
IN THE FIFTH WARD AND I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF ANYTHING&apos;S GOING TO BE
DONE.
WHAT&apos;S BEING DONE TO ADDRESS
THIS ISSUE IF STAFF CAN RESPOND
TO THAT CONCERN, WHAT WE&apos;RE WE
GOING TO DO WITH THE INCREASED
WATER THAT WE&apos;RE RECEIVING
WE&apos;RE TAKING WAY MORE OF THE
EARTH THAT WOULD ABSORB IT IS
WHAT WHAT&apos;S BEING DONE TO
ADDRESS THAT?
WELL, THE GOOD NEWS IS WHEN
DEVELOPMENT HAPPENS WE IMPROVE
THAT STORMWATER CONDITION AS AN
OLD CITY, THE MAJORITY OF OUR
LAND DOES NOT HAVE STORMWATER
CONTROLS IN PLACE.
AND SO WHENEVER WE HAVE A NEW
DEVELOPMENT OR AN EXPANSION
THAT IS IN FACT AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR US TO IMPROVE THE
STORMWATER CAPTURE QUALITY AND
FLOW RATE AS OPPOSED TO WHAT
WAS THERE PRIOR.
SO WHILE THAT CAN HAPPEN AT
TIMES WITH AN INCREASE
OF PERVIOUS SURFACE, TYPICALLY
WHEN A NEW INVESTMENT HAPPENS
IT RESULTS A NET IMPROVEMENT IN
THE STORMWATER FOR THAT
PARTICULAR PROBLEM RIGHT NOW
THE LAST I HEARD I THINK ABOUT
FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THE CITY
PROPERTY HAS FROM WATER
CONTROL.
SO EVERY TIME AN INVESTMENT
HAPPENS, WHETHER IT&apos;S ON A
SMALL SCALE OR LARGE SCALE, WE
START ADDING TO THAT PERCENTAGE
OF MY TIME IS ABOUT TO RUN OUT
BUT I HAVE TO SPEAK AGAIN FOR
THEIR DISCUSSION COUNCIL OVER.
&gt;&gt; UM, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, I
WILL PUSH BACK ON THAT.
I KNOW MANY RESIDENTS IN THE
FIFTH WARD WOULD ALSO AGREE
WITH ME THAT THAT&apos;S NOT THE
CASE.
DEVELOPMENT IS OCCURRING ON
PARTS OF THE CITY AND PARTS
OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT WERE
THE DE FACTO BASE AND THAT
CAUGHT THE RAINWATER IN AND
STORED THE WATER DURING HEAVY
RAINS.
THOSE PROPERTIES IN THAT LAND
NOW IS BEING DEVELOPED AND
THOSE WATERS NOW ARE ENDING UP
IN SOMEONE ELSE&apos;S PROPERTY WHO
HAPPENS TO BE A FEW FEET LOWER
IN GRADE A SIMPLY DON&apos;T AGREE
WITH THE ASSERTION OR THE
ASSUMPTION THAT WE&apos;RE IN
IMPROVING STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
.
MANY OF THESE CASES ARE NOW IN
SOME BOATS LIKELY PERHAPS BUT
I&apos;VE SEEN IT THE RESIDENTS HAVE
EXPERIENCED IT WHERE THIS TYPE
OF DEVELOPMENT LEADS TO
SOMEBODY ELSE ABSORBING THE
COST YOU KNOW, FLOODED YARDS,
FLOODED BASEMENTS, FLOODED
FRONT YARDS.
I HAVE A LOT OF EMAILS STATING
THIS AND I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW
HOW IN THIS CASE IT&apos;S GOING TO
BE IMPROVED.
WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENS IN THIS
CASE BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE
CONVENIENCES IN MANY AREAS TO
TAKE ON ADDITIONAL RUNOFF AND
YOU AND RESIDENTS ARE BEING
TOLD IF YOU WANT THIS ADDRESS
YOU HAVE TO PAY FOR IT WITH THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT DOESN&apos;T
BECAUSE THE INFRASTRUCTURE
DOESN&apos;T EXIST SO THEY HAVE TO
HAVE A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
DISTRICT CREATED AND PAY FOR
THE INFRASTRUCTURE IT CURRENTLY
IS NOT THERE.
WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE CASES
THAT&apos;S NOT THEIR POWER INCREASE
IN DEVELOPMENT
.
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;RE MR LAINER IS HE
FROZEN OR MERELY STUCK?
MR DE HONEY, ARE YOU IN A
POSITION TO RESPOND?
MR MR MUGABE THE QUESTION THAT
THE COUNCIL MEMBER POSES IS
ACTUALLY A BROADER ONE THAN THE
ITEM THAT&apos;S BEFORE YOU THIS
EVENING.
WE DO HAVE AREAS OF THE CITY
WHERE WE ARE STRUGGLING WITH
TRYING TO FIND A SOLUTION FOR
STORMWATER ISSUES.
WE ALSO ARE HINDERED BY CURRENT
LITIGATION REGARDING ISSUES OR
OUR OPTIONS FOR ADDRESSING
THAT.
WE HAVE BEEN STUDYING TO FIND
ADDITIONAL OPTIONS FOR US.
I CERTAINLY DON&apos;T CHALLENGE AT
ALL THE THE ISSUES THAT THE
COUNCIL MEMBER RAISES ABOUT
PEOPLE HAVING TO DEAL WITH THE
ASSESSMENT AS AN APPROACH TO
RESOLVING THIS SITUATION IN THE
SHORT ANSWER IS WE DO NOT YET
HAVE AN OPTION TO PUT ON THE
TABLE TO ADDRESS THE SITUATION
WE ARE TRYING TO DEVELOP ONE
WE&apos;RE WORKING ACROSS MULTIPLE
DEPARTMENTS INCLUDING THE LAW
DEPARTMENT AND THE FINANCE
DEPARTMENT AND AS SOON AS WE
HAVE AN OPTION THAT WE THINK IS
VIABLE WE WILL BRING IT FORWARD
.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
I JUST WANT TO SAY DEFINITELY
SUPPORT OF THESE CHANGES.
I THINK THIS IS A IT MAKES
SENSE THAT WE GO BACK AND MAKE
SURE THAT OUR ZONING CATEGORIES
ARE WORKING AND AS WE HAD
INTENDED THEM TO WORK OUR WAY
WAS SUPPOSED TO BE A ZONING
DISTRICT THAT ALLOWED ALLOWED
FOR DUPLEXES AND WE MADE SOME
CHANGES IN THE EIGHTIES AND IT
MADE THAT NOT POSSIBLE.
AND SO THIS IS REALLY
CORRECTING A PAST WRONG SO THAT
WE ACTUALLY HAVE OUR CODE MORE
ALIGNED WITH HOW IT&apos;S SUPPOSED
TO FUNCTION.
SO I&apos;M GLAD TO SEE THAT
WORKING.
GLAD TO SEE THIS CHANGE MOVING
FORWARD.
I DO THINK I APPRECIATE MR
DONEES COMMENTS.
I THINK THERE&apos;S A BIT OF A
CONFLATION ABOUT WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING HERE.
THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
ISSUES COUNCIL MEMBER RIMAWI
OF COURSE IS CORRECT THAT THIS
IS A BIG ISSUE AND IN THE FIFTH
WARD WE&apos;VE MENTIONED IT BEFORE
AT THE TABLE AND I&apos;M VERY
THANKFUL THAT PUBLIC SERVICES
HAS BEEN WORKING PRETTY
DILIGENTLY WITH US OVER THE
PAST FEW MONTHS TO IDENTIFY
SOLUTIONS THAT WILL BETTER
SERVE OUR RESIDENTS IN THE
FUTURE.
BUT THAT IS SOMETHING WE&apos;RE
WORKING THROUGH, STAFF IS
WORKING THROUGH AND I HOPE THAT
WE WILL HAVE SOMETHING TO
PRESENT THE PUBLIC WITH SHORTLY
FURTHER DISCUSSIONS.
COUNCILOR SONG IT MIGHT BE
WORTH REPEATING THAT THIS IS
WORK THAT IS A COURSE
CORRECTION THAT MAKES IT LEGAL
TO DEVELOP DUPLEXES THAT WE
ALREADY HAVE PROPERTIES
OF VALUE IN THESE LOTS WHERE
NEXT WE&apos;RE NOT EXPECTING A RASH
OF CONVERSIONS TO DUPLEXES BUT
HOPEFULLY THIS WILL ENCOURAGE
THAT WORK.
CURRENTLY WE SEE PEOPLE
BUILDING ON THESE LOTS THEY&apos;RE
REPLACING MORE MODEST SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES WITH LARGER ONES A
BIG FOUR AS WE&apos;VE HEARD ALREADY
THAT BIGFOOTING IS OCCURRING
WHICH CREATING GREATER PRESSURE
ON AFFORDABILITY RATHER THAN
THE IDEA THAT DENSITY WILL BE
MAKING IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR
FOLKS TO AFFORD HOMES IN OUR
CITIES.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT COMPETING AGAINST
DENSITY.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE&apos;RE GIVING FOLKS
OPTIONS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I&apos;M DELIGHTED THAT THIS THAT
THIS ORDINANCE CHANGE WILL BE
MOVING FORWARD.
I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT WE
GIVE PROPERTY OWNERS A FAIR BIT
OF FLEXIBILITY ON HOW TO USE
THEIR THEIR LARGER LOTS.
&gt;&gt; I WILL SAY THAT THE THE
PROBLEM OF STORMWATER SYSTEMIC
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT OF COURSE
CONTINUES TO BE SOMETHING THAT
I&apos;M GLAD THAT STAFF IS WORKING
ON.
I KNOW IS AN IMPORTANT CONCERN
TO MANY RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT
THE CITY AND CERTAINLY IN THE
FIFTH WARD BUT ALSO MANY OTHER
WARDS.
&gt;&gt; I WILL SAY HOWEVER WITH
RESPECT TO THIS I&apos;D LIKE TO
HIGHLIGHT AN ORDINANCE THAT WAS
PASSED IN 2010 WHICH I WAS YOU
KNOW, ONE OF THE LEAD WORKERS
ON AND THAT PROVIDES THAT WHEN
THERE IS A CHANGE ON TO FAMILY
ONE SINGLE OR TWO FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES WHEN THE
IMPERVIOUSNESS THIS INCREASES
BY 200 MORE SQUARE FEET WHICH
IS NOT PARTICULARLY MUCH THAT
IN THOSE INSTANCES THERE THAT
TRIGGERS STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
REQUIREMENT ON SITE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO WHILE THE THESE
CHANGES A CHANGE TO PERMIT
DUPLEXES IN SEVERAL CONTEXTS
MAY INCREASE THE AMOUNT
OF IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE IF IT
DOES SO MORE THAN 200 FEET ON
ANY PARTICULAR
PLOT, THEN THAT
TRIGGERS RIGOROUS STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT ON THAT WHAT THIS IS
ALL TO SAY THAT THIS CHANGE
OUGHT NOT TO AFFECT A
STORMWATER PROBLEM.
IT OUGHT TO BE PART OF A
STORMWATER SOLUTION AS A RESULT
OF ITS INTERACTION WITH THE TWO
2010 ORDINANCE FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
PROVED DO YOU SEE ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A SALE
OF CITY OWNED PROPERTY AT ONE
ONE FOUR SIX SOUTH MAPLE TO
AVALON HOUSING INC FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
GRANT SECOND BY AND SONG
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE ON
FAVORITE POSED IT IS APPROVED
WITH A 10 COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
REQUIREMENT DC TO RESOLUTION
FOR COMMUNITY EVENTS FUND
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE FISCAL
YEAR 2023 BUDGET MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECOND BY
COUNTERPROGRAM DISCUSSION
PLEASE ADC DC TO
KAZMIR GRANT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE THIS COME
FORWARD.
I JUST WANT TO THANK SOME
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO HAVE
REACHED OUT TO US ABOUT
CONCERNS ABOUT OUR PROCESS
ABOUT OUR PROCESS AND I WANT TO
THANK FERSEN FROM OUR SARA
HIGGINS WHO DOES MUCH OF THE
WORK TO MAKE SURE THAT MUCH
OF OUR BELOVED COMMUNITY EVENTS
CAN GET REIMBURSED FOR SOME
OF THEIR CITY EXPENSES.
AND IT&apos;S A WAY THAT WE CAN HELP
SUPPORT THESE EVENTS THAT OFFER
SUCH GREAT COMMUNITY BENEFIT TO
OUR RESIDENTS AND VISITORS.
SO A BIG THANK YOU TO MR.
HIGGINS COUNCIL AUDITIONER WERE
ABLE TO HAVE A REALLY
PRODUCTIVE MEETING AND TALK
ABOUT SOME CHANGES THAT WILL BE
MAKING TO THE PROCESS NOT THIS
YEAR BECAUSE IT SEEMED UNFAIR
TO DO IT AND MADE A COURSE BUT
NEXT YEAR TO TRY TO ADJUST IN A
WAY THAT STILL MAKES THESE
FUNDS INCREDIBLY ACCESSIBLE AND
KEEPS THE PROCESS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
WE&apos;LL GET A LITTLE MORE TO THAT
COMMUNITY BENEFIT AND MAKE SURE
THAT THE FUNDS AS THERE ARE
SOME CHANGES IN THE CITY WITH
COST TO BARRIERS IN PARTICULAR
THAT WERE NOT CHARGING EVENTS
FOR ANYMORE THAT WERE REALLY
JUST MORE ACCURATELY CAPTURING
THE COST FROM THE CITY AND ALSO
THE BENEFIT TO THE COMMUNITY.
SO I WANT TO THANK SOME OF THE
AREAS ASSOCIATIONS FOR RAISING
THOSE CONCERNS WITH US AND I
HOPE THAT WILL HAVE AN EVEN
CLEARER AND AND MORE ACCURATE
WAY TO HELP DISTRIBUTE THESE
FUNDS IN THE FUTURE FOR
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
NILLSON, I WANT TO THANK MY
PROGRAM FOR OFFERING THAT
EXPLANATION AND I AM ACTUALLY
GOING TO ASK FOR A LITTLE MORE
BECAUSE NO ONE HAS EVER MADE AN
INQUIRY IN QUERY TO ME ABOUT
THIS TOPIC UNTIL LIKE TWO DAYS
AGO.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M CURIOUS LIKE WHAT IS THE
TIMELINE FOR I MEAN GUESS HOW
IT HAPPENED THIS YEAR OR MAYBE
HOW YOU ANTICIPATE IT HAPPENING
IN THE FUTURE IN TERMS
OF PEOPLE APPLYING OR COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS APPLYING FOR
THESE FUNDS AND I&apos;M NOT I&apos;M NOT
SURE EXACTLY WHEN THE DATE GOES
OUT.
WE DO HAVE A WEBSITE ON THE
CITY SO IT&apos;S ALWAYS THE
APPLICATION IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
I KNOW MISS HIGGINS DOES REACH
OUT TO ORGANIZATIONS EACH YEAR
THAT HAVE RECEIVED FUNDS IN THE
PAST AND HAS TRIED TO DO A
LITTLE MORE OUTREACH TO GET
THAT APPLICATION.
BUT IT&apos;S I COULD CHECK THE
WEBSITE BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW IT OFF
THE TOP OF MY HEAD.
BUT IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S AN ANNUAL
PROCESS THAT HAPPENS SO THAT
THAT THE FUNDS ARE DISTRIBUTED
FOR THE FOLLOWING YEAR.
&gt;&gt; SO TYPICALLY WE HAVE THESE
MEETINGS IN THE LATE SPRING
SUMMER TIME TO DISTRIBUTE THE
FUNDS.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVORITE POST IT&apos;S APPROVED DC
THREE RESOLUTION REGARDING
LEGAL RESPONSE EFFORTS RELATIVE
TO THE SPILL OF HEXAVALENT
CHROMIUM INTO THE HURON RIVER
BY DRYBAR MANUFACTURING MOVE BY
COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND
VISCOUNTS MIREIA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC THREE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO KICK THIS OFF AND
BASICALLY AND SEE AND SEE THIS
THE TRADEMARK BARS PERIODIC
POLLUTION.
THE HURON RIVER IS OF COURSE
OUTRAGEOUS, ENTIRELY
UNACCEPTABLE FOR MY PART I&apos;M
GRATEFUL TO THE ENGAGEMENT
OF STAFF, THE RIGOROUS AND AN
ONGOING ENGAGEMENT OF STAFF TO
WORK TO KEEP OUR WATER SAFE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GRATEFUL FOR THE
ENGAGEMENT OF A NUMBER OF OUR
ELECTED OFFICIALS INCLUDING
GOVERNOR WITTMER,
REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL, SENATOR
ERWIN, ALL OF WHOM HAVE REACHED
OUT TO ME REPRESENTATIVE RABIE
AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M FURTHER TO GRATEFUL FOR
THE ENGAGEMENT OF EGL AND THE
EPA AND LOOK TO THEM AND OTHERS
WITH REGULATORY AUTHORITY TO
TAKE RIGOROUS DEFINITIVE AND
CONCLUSIVE ACTION.
&gt;&gt; TRIBORO AS POLLUTION OF THE
HURON RIVER NEEDS TO END, WE AT
THE CITY DO NOT HAVE REGULATORY
AUTHORITY BUT WE DO HAVE THE
ABILITY TO BRING AGGRESSIVE AND
APPROPRIATE ACTION IN COURT TO
TO SEEK INJUNCTIONS AND DAMAGES
AND EFFORTS TO DO OUR PART TO
COVER OUR COSTS AND TO BE
COMPENSATED FOR THE DAMAGES
THAT ARE ACCRUING AS A RESULT
OF SCHREIBER&apos;S WRONGDOING AND I
AM CONFIDENT THAT WE WILL DO SO
FOR DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; WELL, YES, THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION I&apos;D LIKE TO BE
LISTED AS A CO-SPONSOR.
I&apos;D ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THE ASSISTANCE THAT&apos;S BEEN
OFFERED BY MEMBERS FROM THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION AS
WELL AS CARD AND ASSURED THE
PUBLIC THAT THIS IS REALLY AN
ALL HANDS ON DECK.
IT&apos;S NOT JUST GOVERNMENTAL
ENTITIES.
THERE ARE ALSO PRIVATE CITIZENS
IN THIS COMMUNITY THAT HAVE
THIS EXPERTIZE THEY&apos;RE ALSO
OFFERING TO HELP.
&gt;&gt; AND LASTLY, I WANT TO POINT
OUT THAT IF YOU WANT MORE
INFORMATION IT&apos;S ON THE CITY&apos;S
HOMEPAGE BUT IT&apos;S ON THE RIGHT
HAND SIDE UNDER WHAT DO YOU
NEED AND IT&apos;S CHROMIUM SPILL
INFO.
SO PLEASE GO TO OUR STAFF IS
UPDATING IT AS MORE INFORMATION
BECOMES AVAILABLE FOR
DISCUSSION COUNCIL BRITISH I
WOULD ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR IF I HAVEN&apos;T BEEN
ADDED ALREADY AND I&apos;D LIKE TO
THANK THE SPONSORS AND THE
LEGAL DEPARTMENT FOR HAVING
THIS ON THE AGENDA AND BEING
WILLING TO JUMP TO THIS.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THAT YOU&apos;RE JUMPING
TO A LOT BECAUSE THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF HORRIBLE STUFF HAPPENING
RIGHT NOW FRANKLY.
&gt;&gt; BUT WE DID RECEIVE A LOT
OF COMMENTS FROM PEOPLE WHO
WROTE IN ASKING ABOUT LEGAL
ACTION AND I DID POST THE
CITY&apos;S WEBSITE ON NEXT DOOR
YESTERDAY AND THERE&apos;S ACTUALLY
BEEN FAIRLY HIGH LEVEL
CONVERSATION THERE AND
INFORMATION RICH AND
CONSTRAINED AND BUT MANY PEOPLE
HAVE ASKED ABOUT LEGAL ACTION.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M VERY HAPPY TO SEE
THIS COUNTERMOVEMENT.
I&apos;M GLAD TO SEE THIS MOVING
FORWARD FOR JUST REQUEST TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND
ANOTHER HELPFUL RESOURCE TO
FOLKS IN THE MEDIA I THINK IS
THE HURON RIVER WATERSHED
COUNCIL.
THEY HAVE A HAVE DEVELOPED
RESOURCES AND INFORMATION ON
THIS ISSUE AS WELL AND I KNOW
THEY&apos;RE A VERY TRUSTED RESOURCE
IN OUR COMMUNITY AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN LOUIS, THANK YOU
.
THIS IS I THINK OF SOMETHING
THAT IS SOMETHING WE SHOULD DO
AUTOMATICALLY.
WE&apos;RE IN CHARGE OF PROTECTING
THE PUBLIC SAFETY AND HEALTH
AND THIS IS JUST ANOTHER OTHER
ISSUE WE HAVE TO ADDRESS.
I ASK THOUGH BASED ON MY
EXPERIENCE WITH GELMAN THAT WE
DO NOT HAVE A GAG ORDER PLACED
ON US BY ATTORNEY IN A WAY THAT
WE CANNOT SHARE INFORMATION
WITH THE PUBLIC.
UM, THE INFORMATION THAT WE
RECEIVE UH, HOPEFULLY IS
ALLOWED TO BE DISSEMINATED.
UM, THERE IS WAY TOO MUCH
SOMETIMES KEPT AWAY FROM THE
PUBLIC.
I UNDERSTAND AT TIMES WHY WE
ARE NOT INVOLVED IN AN ACTIVE
LITIGATION BUT MY FEAR IS WHAT
I EXPERIENCED BEFORE AND THAT
IS NOT A WHOLE LOT OF SUNSHINE
.
UM I I ASK FOR THAT AND I ALSO
ASK ARE WE GOING TO BE REACHING
OUT TO OUTSIDE COUNSEL COUNSEL
THAT IS UH UH SPECIFICALLY UM
TRAINED IN THESE AREAS UH AS WE
DID IN THE CASE OF GALMAN
OBVIOUSLY SO UH A COUPLE
OF THINGS THERE I KNOW IN THE
PAST WE&apos;VE HAD TO EXPLICITLY
ASK FOR INFORMATION AHEAD
OF TIME FROM THE LEGAL
DEPARTMENT THAT WE CAN SHARE
PUBLICLY.
UM AND THEN AGAIN UH WE&apos;RE
GOING TO BE REACHING OUT TO AN
OUTSIDE FIRM TO ASSIST IN THIS
MATTER.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS
COUNCIL MEMBER.
I&apos;M LAVAE.
I HOPE THE FACT THAT THE OFFICE
OF THE CITY ATTORNEY JUMPED AND
PUT THIS RESOLUTION ON TONIGHT
IS AN INDICATION OF I&apos;M WILLING
TO BE TRANSPARENT.
UM AND I WILL PROVIDE THE
COUNSEL WHATEVER INFORMATION I
CAN WITHIN THE CONSTRAINTS
OF COURT RULES AND PROCEDURE.
I MUST RESPECT ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE BUT I UNDERSTAND THE
NEED AS A CITIZEN AND A
RESIDENT FOR TRANSPARENCY.
&gt;&gt; SO WE WILL DEFINITELY MAKE
THAT BALANCE.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL BE REACHING OUT TO
EXPERTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL LAW
BECAUSE IT&apos;S A VERY SPECIALIZED
FIELD OF LAW.
IT&apos;S VERY STACH
TORY.
SO THE ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION
IS YES IT IS NO NO INTENT
OF THE OFFICE OF THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO FILTER INFORMATION
OUR INTENTION ALWAYS IS TO MAKE
IT AS UNDERSTANDABLE AS LESS
LEGALESE AS POSSIBLE AND THAT
WE WILL CONTINUE TO DO.
BUT YOU WILL RECEIVE REGULAR
UPDATES AS COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
THE ISSUES THAT WE ARE DEALING
WITH IN THIS MATTER.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU TO OUR CITY ATTORNEY
FOR GETTING RIGHT ON THIS AND I
THINK THERE&apos;S BROAD SUPPORT AT
THE TABLE FOR DOING THIS BUT MY
FEELING IS JUST THAT WE ARE
RESPONSE CANNOT BE STRONG
ENOUGH OR SWIFT ENOUGH.
&gt;&gt; THIS COMPANY HAS SHOWN
ITSELF TO UNFORTUNATELY BE A
BAD ACTOR WITH US UH,
DISCHARGES WITH AIR QUALITY
PROBLEMS AND NOW THIS AND WE
NEED TO WE NEED TO TAKE EVERY
ACTION WE CAN POSSIBLY TAKE IN
ORDER TO PROTECT OUR OUR RIVER
AND TO HOLD THEM ACCOUNTABLE
COUNCIL WORKERS.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I I HAVE COMPLETE
CONFIDENCE IN OUR CITY
ATTORNEY.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD ASK THAT WE PAUSE
AND EVALUATE WHAT HAPPENED WITH
GELMAN AND THERE ARE SOME
LESSONS TO BE LEARNED AND IF WE
CAN HAVE A LEAD OUTSIDE
ATTORNEY AND TRY TO DISCOURAGE
EVERY ORGANIZATION FROM HAVING
AN ATTORNEY, WE NEED TO WORK
BETTER WITH OUR PARTNERS AND WE
NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE DON&apos;T
END UP WITH FIVE, SIX OR
SOMETIMES EVEN EIGHT ATTORNEYS
THAT ARE ON THE PAYROLL AT THE
SAME TIME WORKING ON THE
PROBLEM.
SO I HOPE THAT YOU CAN BE VERY
STRATEGIC AND AND FOCUS ON
GETTING THE JOB DONE WITHOUT
BECOMING A LAWYER EMPLOYMENT
AGENCY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, CARL COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DENHA.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO BRIEFLY ECHO
THANKS TO ATTORNEY KOUA AND
LEGAL STAFF FOR JUMPING ON THIS
AND GETTING THIS QUICKLY TO US
SO THAT WE CAN WE CAN PASS IT
TONIGHT AND DON&apos;T HAVE TO WAIT
ANOTHER WEEK AND A HALF.
I ALSO WANT TO ECHO THAT YOU
KNOW, THIS IS THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE I DON&apos;T THINK CAN TAKE
MORE SERIOUSLY.
WE WE NEED TO TO DO EVERYTHING
WITHIN OUR POWER AND OUR LEGAL
SCOPE TO TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE&apos;RE MAKING SURE THAT
CONSEQUENCES FOR THIS NOT ONLY
TO PROTECT OUR COMMUNITY BUT
ALSO TO ENSURE THAT THE
POLLUTER IS HELD ACCOUNTABLE.
COUNCILMAN OR STATE
REPRESENTATIVE ROBBIE HAS BEEN
MENTIONED TONIGHT I WANT TO
THANK HIM AS WELL.
I&apos;VE BEEN IN COMMUNICATION WITH
HIM A COUPLE OF TIMES OVER US
ALREADY AND UNFORTUNATELY THIS
IS NOT THE FIRST TIME HE HAS
HAD TO CALL OUT THIS POLLUTER
DURING HIS TENURE IN LANSING.
AS WAS ALREADY MENTIONED THIS
EVENING, THIS THIS POLLUTER HAS
PREVIOUSLY DISCHARGED PEOPLE
INTO THE GREEN RIVER AND AND
UNFORTUNATELY WE CONTINUE TO
HAVE WEAK LAWS AT THE STATE
LEVEL.
AND SO I ENCOURAGE AS THE MAYOR
POINTED OUT, WE ARE NOT WE
DON&apos;T HAVE THAT ENFORCEMENT
ABILITY BUT THE WASHINGTON
DELEGATION HAS PREVIOUSLY
CALLED FOR ACTION TO BE TAKEN
AGAINST DRYBAR AND AND FOR
HAVING STRONGER POLLUTER PAY
LAWS AND MAKING SURE THAT WE
CAN SHUT DOWN FOLKS THAT ARE
BAD ACTORS THAT ARE POLLUTING
OUR DRINKING WATER AND NEEDS IT
NEEDS TO HAPPEN.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO COMMEND
THE WORK BEING DONE BY OUR
WASHINGTON DELEGATION IN
LANSING AS WELL.
I KNOW THIS IS A TEAM EFFORT
BUT I WANT THANK OUR ATTORNEY
FOR JUMPING ON THIS AND AND SAY
THAT YOU OF MY FULL SUPPORT AND
IN PURSUING EVERY AVENUE TO
MAKE SURE THAT THIS ACTOR IS
HELD ACCOUNTABLE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
I JUST WANT TO COMMENT VERY
BRIEFLY ON ON TWO ASPECTS
OF INFORMATION INFORMATION
DISTRIBUTION.
&gt;&gt; FIRST I&apos;D SAY WITH RESPECT
TO THE HEALTH SAFETY OF THE
RIVER, THE HEALTH AND SAFETY
OF THE CITY&apos;S WATER, OUR
EFFORTS TO PROTECT SAME WE CAN
AND WE WILL BE 100 PERCENT
TRANSPARENT WHEN WE UNDERSTAND
THE SITUATION WE WILL
COMMUNICATE IT WHEN WE
UNDERSTAND WHAT WE ARE DOING,
WE WILL COMMUNICATE IT WHEN WE
UNDERSTAND THE CIRCUMSTANCES
THAT THAT ARE BEFORE US, WE
WILL COMMUNICATE IT AT THE SAME
TIME THE GELMAN LITIGATION
OCCURRED IN A SPECIFIC CONTEXT
TO BE HEARD IN THE CONTEXT OF A
SETTLEMENT NEGOTIATION.
IT OCCURRED IN THE CONTEXT OF A
LAWYER, A PART OF ME A JUDGE&apos;S
ORDER TO REMAIN SILENT WITH
RESPECT TO THE MATTER.
FURTHER IT OCCURRED IN THE
CONTEXT OF ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE, COMMUNICATION WITH
RESPECT TO LEGAL STRATEGY AND
LEGAL AND CASE EBBS AND FLOWS.
THE PUBLICATION OF THAT
MATERIAL OF COURSE WOULD BE A
VIOLATION OF ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE.
BUT MORE TO THE POINT IT WOULD
BE DETRIMENTAL TO THE CITY&apos;S
LEGAL POSITION.
&gt;&gt; AND SO WE WILL WALK THAT
LINE.
WE WILL OBSERVE ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE.
WE WILL MAKE SURE THAT OUR
LEGAL POSITION IS STRONG.
BUT WHEN WE UNDERSTAND WHEN WE
HAVE INFORMATION WITH RESPECT
TO THE PUBLIC&apos;S HEALTH AND
SAFETY, WITH RESPECT TO THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF OUR WATER
AND OUR RIVER, WE WILL
COMMUNICATE IT WITHOUT
HESITATION WITH CLARITY AND
WITH ACCURACY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE
POSED IT IS APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE ANY DO WE HAVE A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
&gt;&gt; NO MAYOR.
WE DO NOT.
WE HAVE THE FORKS THE CLERKS
REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITION AND REFERRALS.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK&apos;S SUPPORT
MOVE BY MAYOR I&apos;M SORRY WE HAVE
A DFI.
OH YES WE DO.
MY APOLOGIES.
&gt;&gt; CLOSED SESSION INQUIRY WAS
JUST IN BOLD IN MY AGENDA.
SO DOES ONE RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TUTUT DASH ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO MEND TABLES FIVE
THAT ONE FIVE DASH ONE PRIMARY
USE TABLE AND FIVE THAT ONE
SEVEN DASH TWO TWO FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE CODE OF
THE CITY THEN ARBER AMENDMENTS
TO ONE PERMITTED USES AND R TO
A MINIMUM DIMENSIONS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HIGHER
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D ONE ON
POST IT IS APPROVED TRUECAR HAS
A CLOSED SESSION NEED ARISEN IN
THE PAST FEW MOMENTS?
NO SIR IT HAS NOT.
ALL RIGHT DO WE HAVE A FIRST
CLASS REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS FOR
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG SECONDED BY COUNCIL
NERDISH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY JUST TO EXPRESS
MY GRATITUDE FOR PASSING THE
RESOLUTION AND WE WILL CONTINUE
TO WORK DILIGENTLY.
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT TO US JUST
AS IT IS TO DO SO.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; YOU NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT, GENERAL TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT, GENERAL TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK AT
PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME ONE
NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME
WHETHER AT HOME OR IN CHAMBERS
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE REMARKS AND
CEDE THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT
.
HELLO AGAIN MY NAME IS EVANS IN
CONTINUATION OF MY EARLIER
PRESENTATION PROPOSING THAT
THIS COUNCIL CREATE A NUMBER
OF PERSONS OFFICE AS A
CITIZEN&apos;S ADVOCATE I CONTINUE
WITH THE EXAMPLE OF MY MOTHER
LOLA&apos;S EXPERIENCES.
THE FOLLOWING EXHIBITS RAISE
SERIOUS QUESTIONS AS TO THE
INDEPENDENCE OF OUR LOCAL
COURTS.
EXHIBIT ELEVEN IS A NOVEMBER
5TH TWENTY TWENTY ONE COURT
HEARING TRANSCRIPT EVIDENCING A
JUDGE&apos;S ORDER THAT MOTION
BRIEFS FOR HEARINGS BE
SUBMITTED SEVEN DAYS IN ADVANCE
OF ANY COURT HEARING SO THAT
OPPOSING PARTIES HAVE TIME TO
REVIEW BRIEFS, RESPOND TO
BRIEFS AND PREPARE FOR THE
UPCOMING HEARING.
THE JUDGE&apos;S ORDER WAS A REPEAT
OF A MICHIGAN COURT RULE
EXHIBIT TWELVE IS A DISTRICT
COURT DOCKET EVIDENCING THAT
THE THAT THE COURT AND THE
COURT CLERK&apos;S OFFICE APPARENTLY
IGNORED THE JUDGES ABOVE ORDER
AND SCHEDULED A COURT HEARING
WITH LESS THAN A DAY&apos;S NOTICE
THIS LEGAL AMBUSH A VIOLATION
OF BOTH THE JUDGE&apos;S OWN ORDER
AND MICHIGAN COURT RULES WHEN
WAS AN ABJECT DENIAL OF 91 YEAR
OLD AS DUE PROCESS RIGHTS THE
END OF THE DOCKET SHEET
EVIDENCES THE FULL DISMISSAL
OF LOLAS IMPROPERLY ISSUED
CIVIL INFRACTION TICKET WHICH
IF SHE HAD LOST THREATENED
FINES OF UP TO TWO THOUSAND
DOLLARS PER DAY A SERIOUS
THREAT.
THE ABOVE HEARING RELATED TO
LOLIS ATTORNEY WHO FILED A
MOTION TO WITHDRAW AFTER
RECEIVING AN EMAIL FROM ANOTHER
OF HIS ATTORNEYS RECOMMENDING
THE ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS
CALLING CERTAIN CITY OFFICIALS
TO TESTIFY IN COURT.
THE LACK OF OF PROPER HEARING
NOTICE BY THE COURT RESULTED IN
LOLAS FULLY PAID ATTORNEY BEING
ALLOWED TO WITHDRAW TO WORK
DAYS IN ADVANCE OF THE NEXT
HEARING DATE WHICH FOLLOWED THE
UPCOMING THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY
AND TO HAVING TO APPEAR IN
COURT WITHOUT AN ATTORNEY
WITHOUT ATTORNEY REPRESENTING
AND DUE TO THE LACK OF PROPER
NOTICE.
YET THAT&apos;S WHAT HAPPENED.
ANOTHER ATTORNEY CONTACTED THE
CITY ATTORNEY TO REQUEST THAT
THE UPCOMING HEARING BE
RESCHEDULED TO ALLOW HIM TO
ATTEND THE HEARING.
YET THE CITY ATTORNEY REFUSED.
NOT ONLY DID THE CITY ATTORNEY
REFUSE, THE CITY ATTORNEY TOLD
TOLD THE CALLING ATTORNEY THAT
LOLA HAD MULTIPLE PREVIOUS
ATTORNEYS, LAWYERS BE SAYING
THIS IS A BAD CLIENT.
YOU DON&apos;T WANT TO GET INVOLVED
THEREBY RUNNING THE RISK THAT
LOLA WOULD FAIL TO SECURE LEGAL
REPRESENTATION.
THIS WAS NOT THE ONLY TIME THE
CITY ATTORNEY MADE SUCH A
STATEMENT.
NO PUBLIC SECTOR ATTORNEY
SHOULD EVER MAKE REMARKS THAT
NIGHT CAUSED CITY RESIDENTS WHO
THEY ARE CHARGED TO PROTECT
FAILED TO SECURE LEGAL
REPRESENTATION.
DURING MY MOTHER&apos;S HEARING I
MYSELF WAS IN A FOUR DAY TRIAL
IF A PLAINTIFF IN A LEGAL
MALPRACTISE CASE RELATED TO THE
VERY
SAME UNIT THREE APARTMENT
WHOSE TWO THOUSAND SEVENTEEN
BUILDING PERMITS HAD BEEN
IMPROPERLY REVOKED BY CITY
OFFICIALS AS DESCRIBED IN MY
EARLIER PRESENTATIONS THIS IS
AN INTERCONNECTED WEB RAISING
EVEN FURTHER QUESTIONS COUNSEL
PLEASE CREATE A NUMBATS PERSONS
OFFICE BECAUSE THIS KIND
MISBEHAVIOR MUST STOP.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
FOR BEST CAPTAIN
DOESN&apos;T REPRESENT THE FIERCEST
FIGHTER GLOSTER THE BIG WINNER
ISN&apos;T COMPETING.
THE BEST BOSS TAKES A LOW
FOOTING.
THIS IS THE NON-COMPETITION.
THIS IS THE RIGHT USE
OF ABILITY TO FOLLOW.
&gt;&gt; EVERY LEAD HAS ALWAYS BEEN
THE BEST WAY FOR PEOPLE HEAR
ABOUT THE WAY AND TRY TO FOLLOW
IT.
ORDINARY PEOPLE HEAR ABOUT THE
WAY AND WANDER ONTO IT AND OFF
THAT LIST PEOPLE PEOPLE HEAR
ABOUT THE WAY AND MAKE JOKES
ABOUT IT.
IT WOULDN&apos;T BE THE WAY IF THERE
WERE NO TALKS ABOUT IT SO THEY
SAY THE WAYS BRIGHTNESS LOOKS
LIKE DARKNESS ADVANCING IN THE
WAY FEELS LIKE RETREATING THE
PLAIN WAY SEEMS HARD GOING
WHITE POWER SEEMS VALLEY THE
AMPLIFIED POWER SEEMS NOT
ENOUGH.
THE POWER SEEMS FEEBLE PERFECT
WHITENESS LOOKS DIRTY.
THE PURE AND SIMPLE LOOKS
CHAOTIC.
&gt;&gt; THE GREAT SQUIRREL, THE
GREAT SQUARE HAS NO CORNERS THE
GREAT BUSTLE IS NEVER FINISHED
.
THE GREAT TONE IS BARELY HEARD
THE GREAT THOUGHT CAN&apos;T BE
THOUGHT.
&gt;&gt; THE WAY IS HIDDEN AND IT&apos;S
NAMELESS NESS ONLY THE WAY IT
BEGINS SUSTAINS FULFILLS
.
THANK YOU
HELLO HOW ARE YOU DOING BRANDON
FOURTH WARD I JUST WANT TO SAY
THANK YOU FOR FIXING MOST OF OF
OUR TOO.
I THINK THAT WAS A GOOD CALL.
I PERSONALLY DON&apos;T THINK IT
MATTERS WHO MIGHT HAVE A SLIGHT
APPRECIATION IN THEIR PROPERTY
VALUE IF IT MEETS THE GOALS
OF THE CITY.
IT SEEMS LIKE A GOOD CALLED ME
SO AND I ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT
THE VOTING CHART FOR TONIGHT IS
ALREADY UP TO COUNCIL THAT VOTE
WHICH I SPOKE ABOUT THE LAST
MEETING BUT IF YOU GO TO
COUNCIL THAT VOTE RIGHT NOW YOU
CAN SEE THE VOTING CHART THAT
YOU KEPT IT PRETTY EASY FOR ME
TONIGHT THOUGH.
SO UH, TRY HARDER NEXT TIME
MAYBE EVERYONE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ANYONE ELSE AND HOUSE
SPEAKER PROBABLY COME IN.
IS THERE ANYONE MINE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT
?
OH, MR. MY NAME&apos;S AND I&apos;M HERE
TO TALK ABOUT ART WHO AIN&apos;T I
VERY HAPPY THAT SOME OF OUR
TOILET IS FIXED.
I WISH THAT ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
OF ART WAS FIXED.
I THINK THAT IN ORDER TO I
THINK PERHAPS CONFORM TO THE
HISTORIC NATURE OF THE CITY
SHOULD BE POTENTIALLY
POTENTIALLY A GOOD IDEA TO MAKE
THE HISTORIC HISTORICAL
CHARACTER OF THE CITY LEGAL.
AND I&apos;D LIKE TO CALL ON COUNCIL
TO CONTINUE THIS AND TO MAKE
EVERY POSSIBLE IN OUR FORCES
CONFORM AND ALSO TO CONTINUE IN
THE SAME VEIN OF MAKING IT
EASIER TO BUILD HOUSES ON SMALL
LOTS SMALLER AMOUNTS OF LAND TO
BUILD THEM BY REDUCING THE LOT
SIZES FOR SMALL FAMILIES, NOT
FORCING FAMILIES ON PARCELS
PERHAPS ADOPTING THE DEED THAT
THE DIMENSIONS OF R1 E ACROSS
OUR ONE A B C D AND E AND
REMOVING THE MAXIMUM HOUSE SIZE
FROM THE OTHER ONE KEY
PROVISION AND ADOPTING A SYSTEM
THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR PEOPLE TO
SPLITS AND TO BUILD SMALLER
HOUSES ON WHAT USED TO BE A
LARGE LOT.
I THINK THIS WOULD BE POSITIVE
FOR THE CITY BECAUSE THERE&apos;S A
LOT OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR A
HOUSE TO BUILD BUT
UNFORTUNATELY IN ALL SITUATIONS
IT&apos;S JUST ILLEGAL TO ENFORCE
THE IF YOU SCORE ON THE CITY TO
A LOT OF OUR OWN NEIGHBORHOODS
LIKE THE ONE I USED TO LIVE IN
THIS PAST YEAR, ALL OF THE
PARCELS AREN&apos;T NONCONFORMING
AND IT&apos;S STRANGE BECAUSE THERE
THERE ARE BUILT THAT WAY AND
IT&apos;S NO LONGER ILLEGAL AND IT&apos;S
NOT FOR ANY OBJECTIVE REASON.
IT&apos;S ACTUALLY KIND OF UNCLEAR
WHY THEY HAVEN&apos;T MADE
NONCONFORMING UNLESS YOU WANT
TO SAY THAT THEY ARE
NONCONFORMING BECAUSE THEY&apos;D
LIKE TO PROHIBIT THE PLANNERS
OF THE CITY THE CITY WANTS
PROHIBIT DEVELOPMENT.
UNFORTUNATELY I DON&apos;T THINK
IT&apos;S A GOOD IDEA BECAUSE WE ARE
FACING A HOUSING CRUNCH.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE ENOUGH HOUSING
AND IT&apos;S REALLY HARD TO BUILD
ANYTHING IN THE CITY.
IN FACT, THE CITY HAS BUILT
HARDLY ANY HOUSING THIS YEAR
LESS THAN SEVENTY UNITS I
BELIEVE AND PROBABLY LESS THAN
SEVEN UNITS OF HOUSING THIS
YEAR AND I THINK THAT WE COULD
DO A BETTER JOB OF MAKING IN
OUR A WELCOMING PLACE FOR MORE
PEOPLE TO BE LIVING BY
REFORMING OUR ZONING CATEGORIES
TO MAKE THE HISTORICAL
BUILDINGS IN THEM LEGAL AGAIN.
I THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ,
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
HI.
ADAM DISCOVERED FROM THE FOURTH
WARD HERE I AGREE WITH THE
PREVIOUS CALLER THAT IT WOULD
BE GREAT TO DO SOME SIMILAR
REFORMS AND OUR FORESE AND MAKE
SOME OF OUR HISTORICAL LAND-USE
POLICIES LEGAL AGAIN AND THANK
YOU FOR THE CHANGES TO OUR TWO.
I THINK THEY&apos;LL THEY&apos;LL BE
THEY&apos;LL BE GOOD.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S A KIND OF AN 80
20 SOLUTION BUT YOU EVERY EVERY
LITTLE BIT HELPS AND THE MAIN
THING I JUST WANT TO MENTION IS
YOU THANK YOU TO EVERYBODY WHO
VOTED AND CONGRATULATIONS TO
THE WINNERS AND TO THE OUTGOING
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE TO
THE COMMUNITY AND THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, PAUL.
OVER THE PHONE NUMBER AND AGAIN
FIVE THREE FOUR DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING AGAIN, TOM COLBERT
CAN&apos;T LOWERTOWN AS I STARTED
EARLIER.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO SUPPORT EVAN ESSI
EVAN WOULD MISPRONOUNCE YOUR
NAME SO I&apos;LL TRY HIS CALL FOR
AN OMBUDSMAN POSITION IN THE
CITY AS SOMEBODY WHO HAS A
BACKGROUND IN DEVELOPMENT
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT.
MY PARTNER&apos;S DAUGHTER I&apos;M A
BROKER.
THE NUMBER OF CALLS AND EMAILS
I GET FROM NEIGHBORS AND
FRIENDS ASKING FOR HELP THEY&apos;RE
TRYING TO DO SOMETHING FOR THE
CITY THEY&apos;VE RUN INTO A LITTLE
GLITCH OR WHATEVER AND IT&apos;S
HARD TO NAVIGATE AND SOMETIMES
THEY&apos;LL GO TO THE CITY COUNCIL
OR SOMETHING AND ASK FOR HELP
THAT I GET EVENTUALLY EMAIL
FROM A CITY COUNCIL PERSON
SAYING CAN YOU HELP THIS
PERSON?
SO THERE&apos;S DEFINITELY NEED
ANECDOTALLY I CAN EXPRESS THAT
AND ESPECIALLY WHEN WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT THE INDIVIDUAL
CITIZEN WHO MAY NOT KNOW HOW TO
CONTACT OR MAY NOT HAVE
PERSONAL CONTACT WITH SOMEBODY
IN REAL ESTATE OR A STRUCTURAL
ENGINEER OR AN ARCHITECT OR
WHATEVER THEY MIGHT NEED TO GO
TO FOR SOME ADVICE AND OFTEN
THEY DON&apos;T NEED TO HIRE THAT
PERSON BUT THAT&apos;S THEY END UP
HIRING THAT PERSON TO GET THE
ADVICE THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
AVAILABLE IF WE HAD SOMEBODY
WOULD JUST GENERAL CITY
AVAILABLE TO THAT PERSON IN
THIS OMBUDSMAN ALSO I SUPPORT
THAT ALSO LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
STORM WATER IN GENERAL WHILE WE
GO FOR A TWO ZERO
CARBON NEUTRALITY IN 2030 BY
THE TIME WE GET TO 2030 YOU
COULD BE LOOKING AT THE IMPACT
OF CLIMATE CHANGE IN TERMS
OF STORM WATER ON THE CITY.
IT&apos;S COMING.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S NOTHING WE CAN DO TO
STOP IT FROM COMING BUT HOW WE
MANAGE IT.
&gt;&gt; I DO UNDERSTAND THAT THE
BULK OF OUR CITY WAS DEVELOPED
PRIOR TO STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
TECHNIQUES THAT RIGHT NOW WE DO
ABOUT THE MAXIMUM WE CAN DO FOR
NEW CONSTRUCTION AND IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY IN PARTICULAR
ARE GOOD WITH STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT FOR NEW PROJECTS.
HOWEVER, WHAT WE REALLY NEED IS
THE NEW PROJECTS TO DO MORE AND
WE CAN REQUIRE THEM TO DO TO
MAKE UP FOR WHAT WE&apos;RE MISSING
ON THE OLD STUFF.
WE CAN DO THAT WITH INCENTIVES
BECAUSE YOU CAN&apos;T ASK MORE THAN
YOU CAN REQUIRE THEM TO AND YOU
CAN ASK BUT BY INCENTIVIZING
THEM IN ONE OF THE
OPPORTUNITIES WE HAVE TO SEE
ONE REDEVELOPMENT IS A PERFECT
TIME TO TAKE A LOT
OF PROPERTIES AND NOT JUST
BRING THEM UP TO THE CURRENT
STAND REPORT TO BE ON THE
CURRENT STANDARD AND SO WE CAN
DO THAT WITH INCENTIVES THAT
ARE EMBEDDED INTO
OUR ZONING
CHANGES BY TAKING PLANTS AND
OTHER TYPES OF INCENTIVES.
AGAIN, IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE
THIS COMMON.
WE NEED IT.
THE CITY IS GOING TO HAVE TO DO
WITH MASSIVE INFRASTRUCTURE
COSTS IF WE DON&apos;T DO IT ON AN
INDIVIDUAL REDEVELOPMENT BASIS.
&gt;&gt; SO LET&apos;S INCENTIVIZE
DEVELOPERS TO DO IT.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, BOB MARTINI, DO
YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
OH YES.
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT I&apos;M
VERY GRATEFUL HOW R2 IS FULLY
FIXED EVERYTHING AROUND AND
GRATEFUL THAT YOU OF ALL THE
PEOPLE AND HOW YOU APPROVED
TURTLE ABORTIONS AND EVERYTHING
OF THAT SORT AND THEN IT&apos;S
REALLY CHANGED MY LIFE FOR AS A
READER AND I&apos;M REALLY EXCITED
TO BE A HERO BECOMING THE
NUMBER ONE LGBTQ SUPPORTERS IN
LOUISIANA
.
YEAH, BUT I GUESS FOR YOU THE
BRANSFORD TODAY VERY, VERY
SWAPPABLE WORRIED SORRY IT CAME
OUT I COULDN&apos;T CONTROL MY BAD
AND
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
.
SEE, NO ONE PUBLIC COMMENT IS
CLOSED.
ONE MORE MAYOR.
I&apos;M SORRY.
THANK YOU.
CALLER FOUR SIX FOUR.
GO AHEAD.
OH YES.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN OPEN THE BAR OPEN FOR
A REVOLUTION TO DO SO.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT YOU&apos;VE
BEEN REPORTING FOR PROBABLY
PEOPLE COME OUT IN OUR
COMMUNITY TO TAKE A REAL THANK
YOU FOR THAT RESOLUTION ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT YOU ALL STAND IS
TO THANK YOU FOR HELPING MY
BROTHER IS
BUT I&apos;M GRATEFUL FOR
THE DEPARTMENT OF THE FAMILY
FOR MY CAN DEPEND ON TRYING TO
IMPROVEMENT NO MORE AND WE NEED
TO DO MORE WITH GLOBAL CAPITAL
AND
BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA
BA BA BA BA BA.
WE&apos;RE ALL OPEN FOR YOU PROBABLY
FOR FRIENDS AND THAT WILL BE
HARD OR WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM
FOR WE SHOULD BE BUILDING AND
THAT SHOULD BE PROBABLY OPEN
FOR AN AWFUL NINE FOR EVERYBODY
AT THAT IF YOU CAN BRING THE
COUNCIL IN THAT ROOM.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON THE LINE WITH THEIR
HANDS UP SEE NO IN PUBLIC
COMMENTS CLOTHES ARE THERE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD, I
WANT TO ADD MY SUPPORT TO
OMBUDSPERSON WITHIN THE CITY AT
LEAST ONE SOMETHING THAT I
TALKED ABOUT BEFORE AND THIS
DOES NOT REFLECT POORLY ON ANY
STAFF MEMBERS BUT THE CULTURE
AND A SYSTEM OF OUR
ORGANIZATION IS VERY WEAK WHEN
IT COMES TO FEEDBACK LOOPS AND
SO FREQUENTLY WHAT WE&apos;RE
HEARING ABOUT AT THE COUNCIL
TABLE IS NOT REALITY.
I THINK OMBUDSPERSON WOULD HELP
WITH THAT COMMUNICATION AND
ALSO WE TALK ABOUT THE NEED FOR
MORE HOUSING.
WE TALK ABOUT THE NEED FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUT WE&apos;VE
NEVER HAD HONEST CONVERSATION
ABOUT WHAT ARE THE KEY
CONSTRAINTS THAT ARE PREVENTING
IT.
WE HAVE THIS RALLY CRY ABOUT
UPSELLING UP ZONE UP ZONE.
BUT WHAT I HEAR FROM DEVELOPER
IS IS THEY HAVE A DIFFICULT
TIME WORKING THROUGH THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
SO GIVEN A CHOICE THEY DO NOT
BUILD IN ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; SO I WOULD ASK STAFF TO
EXPLORE THAT AND ALSO SERIOUSLY
CONSIDER AN OMBUDSPERSON.
LASTLY, I&apos;VE MENTIONED BEFORE
ANNE APPLEBAUM SHE WROTE A BOOK
THE TWILIGHT OF DEMOCRACY.
&gt;&gt; SHE&apos;S ALSO A WELL RESPECTED
AUTHOR.
SHE WAS AT THE FORD SCHOOL
OF PUBLIC POLICY IN APRIL
OF THIS YEAR.
THERE&apos;S A PODCAST AVAILABLE YOU
JUST HAVE TO GOOGLE HER NAME
DEMOCRACY IN CRISIS WHILE SHE
TALKS MORE ABOUT WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL,
THERE ARE SOME LESSONS TO BE
LEARNED BY LISTENING TO HER
PODCAST.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, REMINE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
UM, A FEW THINGS I GUESS FIRST
SEE A 11 WE AWARDED A NINE
HUNDRED THOUSAND OUR CONTRACT
TO FINANCE AND COMPANY.
IT&apos;S GOOD TO SEE US STILL BEING
ABLE TO WORK WITH MANY
DIFFERENT CONTRACTORS.
I KNOW THIS CONTRACTOR I
THOUGHT IN MY OPINION WAS
TREATED VERY POORLY A COUPLE
MONTHS AGO SO I JUST LIKE TO
HIGHLIGHT SOME OF THE
INCONSISTENCIES THAT I
EXPERIENCE HERE AND WHAT
TRANSPIRES SECOND, I ALSO LIKE
TO EXPAND ON WHAT COUNCIL
MEMBER GRATHWOHL JUST SAID.
THAT IS THE NUMBER ONE FEEDBACK
THAT I RECEIVE IS THAT WORKING
WITH THE CITY IS DIFFICULT.
I&apos;VE HAD MANY FIRMS RESPOND TO
INQUIRIES THAT I PUT IN.
IT SIMPLY WON&apos;T WORK IN THIS
CITY BECAUSE OF THE
DIFFICULTIES.
SO MOST CONTRACTORS PUT A
PREMIUM A 20 PERCENT PREMIUM
AND YOU COME TO WORK IN AN HOUR
FOR ALL OF THE EXTRA WORK AND
TIME AND MONEY IT TAKES TO DO
SOMETHING IN THE CITY.
SO THAT ALL TRANSLATES TO THE
BOTTOM LINE.
LASTLY, THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT
OF ENTHUSIASM ABOUT OUR TWO WAY
TONIGHT WHICH IS GREAT.
BUT WHAT WE&apos;RE SEEING HERE IS A
PATTERN SYSTEMATICALLY
OF CHANGING OUR LAND USE PLAN
AND BITS AND PIECES IN DRIBS
AND DRABS WITHOUT UNDERGOING A
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
THERE&apos;S A BUNCH OF UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES.
A CITY IS A SYSTEM WHEN YOU
CHANGE ONE THING YOU&apos;RE GOING
TO ALTER MANY THINGS WITHIN
THAT SYSTEM.
THIS COUNCIL FRANKLY DOES NOT
TAKE A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO
LAND USE WHICH CIRCUMVENTS A
LOT OF PUBLIC INPUT.
YOU CAN LOOK AT ONE IN THE
WEBSITE THE TOWN COUNCIL ONLY
PEOPLE WHO LIVE WITHIN THREE
HUNDRED FEET ARE BEING NOTICED.
COUNCILOR, THANK YOU COUNCILOR
BRIAN, THANK YOU.
UM, JUST TO RESPOND BRIEFLY TO
CONCERNS ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS BEING DIFFICULT HERE IN
ANN ARBOR, UM, I CERTAINLY HAVE
HAD THOSE SAME DISCUSSIONS WITH
WITH DEVELOPERS MYSELF AND UM
THAT IS ONE REASON ALTHOUGH NOT
THE ONLY REASON THAT I&apos;VE BEEN
WORKING WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND WITH FOLKS ON
THE THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION BOARD TO TO LOOK AT
HOW WE CAN, UH, TAKE A HOLISTIC
LOOK AT OUR DEVELOPMENT AND
BUILDING PROCESSES AND AND LOOK
AT WHAT WE NEED TO CHANGE
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, TO THE VERY
POINT TONIGHT WE ARE LOOKING AT
MOVING FORWARD AND MAKING JUST
ONE SMALL CHANGE THAT CAN OPEN
UP UH, OPPORTUNITIES FOR NEW
DEVELOPMENT OF HOUSING AND AS
WE LOOK AT MORE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR THAT, UH, CONTINUED
EXPANSION OF HOUSING IN OUR
COMMUNITY, WE DO NEED TO MAKE
SURE THAT OUR PROCESSES ARE AS
EFFICIENT AS POSSIBLE SO THAT
NEW HOUSING CAN BE BUILT AS
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE BECAUSE WE
ARE WAY BEHIND THE CURVE.
&gt;&gt; SO MORE TO COME ON THAT.
BUT I DID JUST WANT TO SINCE IT
CAME UP WANTED TO JUST GIVE A
LITTLE HEADS UP THAT THAT IS
ALREADY IN THE WORKS FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNTERASSAULT.
I APPRECIATE THE ITERATIVE WORK
THAT WE DO HERE AT THIS TABLE
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT LAND USE AND
LAND AND DEVELOPMENT NOT TOO
LONG AGO WE APPROVED THE
SARTORIALIST PROJECT AND IN THE
SAME NIGHT ALSO APPROVED ONE.
SO YES, THERE ARE SYSTEMS AT
PLAY WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT HOW DO
WE DEVELOP OUR CITIES SO THAT
WE CAN ADDRESS THAT IN THAT
CASE BROWNFIELD WORK
REMEDIATION NEEDED TO BE DONE
TO WELCOME A CORPORATION THAT
DESIGNED TO BUILD THEIR
BUSINESS HERE, EMPLOY FOLKS
HERE, PAY TAXES HERE AND
HOPEFULLY HOUSE THEM HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO I APPRECIATE THE
SYSTEMATIC AND ITERATIVE WORK
THAT COMES FROM THE STABLE.
&gt;&gt; I I WANTED TO SHARE THE
COUNCIL MEMBER DECISION.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE REACHED OUT TO STAFF
AND WE&apos;RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW WE CAN HELP ORGANIZE AND
CO-HOST A TOWN HALL AND HOW WE
APPROACH ROAD IMPROVEMENTS.
THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT OF QUESTIONS
AND HOW WE CHOOSE PROJECTS AND
HOW WE PRIORITIZE ROAD REPAIR
SO WE&apos;RE HOPING THAT WE CAN
WORK ALONGSIDE OUR STAFF AND
CLARIFY HOW THAT WORK THAT
ITERATIVE WORK AGAIN IS
APPROACHED.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR DENHA
TAKING MY COUNSEL PRIOR
DISCUSSION ON PAPER POSED WE&apos;RE
ADJOURNED